
                               6 of 177 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Pays Tribute to the 'Peanuts' Gang

BYLINE: By GEORGE GENE GUSTINES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 764 words


''Like millions of Americans, I grew up with 'Peanuts.' But I never outgrew
it.''

So begins the foreword written by President Obama for the 25th volume of ''The
Complete Peanuts,'' the latest in a series of hardcover books reprinting every
daily and Sunday strip of the iconic series that appeared from 1950 to 2000. The
volume, which is scheduled for release in May, covers Jan. 1, 1999, through Feb.
13, 2000, when the final ''Peanuts'' strip was published the day after the death
of its creator, Charles M. Schulz.

''For decades, 'Peanuts' was our own daily security blanket,'' President Obama
writes in his introduction. ''That's what makes 'Peanuts' an American
treasure.''

No one would agree with that assessment more than Gary Groth, the president and
co-founder of Fantagraphics Books, which has been publishing ''The Complete
Peanuts'' since 2004. Mr. Groth wanted to make sure this volume was special,
beginning with the introduction -- and who was going to write it.

''Obama was inevitably at the top of the list,'' he said. ''Let's just reach for
the stars. All he can do is say no.''

Jake Tapper of CNN, who wrote the foreword to Vol. 22, put Mr. Groth in contact
with the White House and the request eventually found its way to the president.

''It was a great day when we got the word that he agreed do it,'' Mr. Groth
said.

The idea for the collected editions came to Mr. Groth in 1997, when he
interviewed Mr. Schulz for The Comics Journal, a trade magazine. ''Previously
'Peanuts' had been collected only in sporadic volumes: thematically or
randomly,'' Mr. Groth said. ''Maybe someone should publish a uniform series,''
he recalled suggesting to Mr. Schulz. ''And that someone could be me,'' he
added.

Mr. Schulz resisted at first, but eventually gave his consent. Still, the
project did not really take shape until after his death, from colon cancer. Mr.
Groth credits the cartoonist's widow, Jeannie Schulz, for cutting through the
red tape involved with securing the publication rights to make the series
possible.

Still, a series of hardcover reprints was not a safe bet. Previous collected
editions of Prince Valiant, Pogo, Popeye and others ''were almost always a hard
sell,'' Mr. Groth said. ''There was no market for newspaper strip reprints. You
were really targeting the hard-core comics and cartoon aficionados.''

But ''The Complete Peanuts'' found an audience. Fantagraphics has produced two
volumes a year, each selling around 15,000 to 20,000 copies, Mr. Groth said,
followed by another 20,000 for a boxed set every holiday season combining the
year's releases.

While the 25th volume wraps up the daily newspaper strips, it also includes a
look back. It reprints ''Li'l Folks,'' the weekly comic from Mr. Schulz
published from 1947 to 1950, which was a forerunner to ''Peanuts.'' The final
''Complete Peanuts'' volume, due in October, will provide something different: a
collection of stories and drawings that appeared outside the comic strip.

''It is a real treasure trove of little-seen and never before reprinted work --
all drawn by the hand of Charles Schulz,'' Mr. Groth said.

In 2005 ''The Complete Peanuts'' won two Eisner Awards, the comic book
industry's equivalent of an Oscar, for best archival collection (which it won
again in 2007) and for best publication design -- no doubt thanks to the
evocative covers by the artist known as Seth, each featuring a gray-toned
close-up of one of the ''Peanuts'' gang as drawn by Mr. Schulz. The series also
paved the way for other lavish and comprehensive reprint editions including
''The Complete Calvin and Hobbes,'' by Bill Watterson, and ''The Complete Far
Side,'' by Gary Larson.

But the biggest impact of ''The Complete Peanuts'' was on Fantagraphics.

''We're an independent publisher: We have no backers, no investors. We have only
the books we publish and our wits to fall back on,'' Mr. Groth said. ''We found
ourselves in periodic financial crises. We published the 'Peanuts' right in the
nick of time. It changed the fortunes of the company by allowing the company to
continue to exist.''

President Obama joins an eclectic group of ''Complete Peanuts'' foreword
writers, including Garrison Keillor, Jonathan Franzen, Diana Krall, John Waters,
Billie Jean King, Alec Baldwin and Patton Oswalt. ''Whoopi Goldberg was
terrific,'' Mr. Groth said. ''Some celebrities -- especially the ones who turned
us down -- not so much.''

Mr. Groth's experience with President Obama was very satisfying, he said: ''It's
great to tell the president, 'We need it by this date. Don't be late.' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/07/business/media/obama-pays-tribute-to-charlie-b
rown-snoopy-and-the-peanuts-gang.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 25th volume of ''The Complete Peanuts,'' a series published
over 12 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FANTAGRAPHICS BOOKS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%);
COLORECTAL CANCER (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 177 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

High-Flying Jets and Sharks, a 40-Piece Orchestra and a Sliver of a Stage

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 819 words


The headlong energy of youth was on ample -- no, make that spectacular --
display over the weekend in Maspeth, Queens, at the Knockdown Center, a former
factory where a wonderfully energized, energizing production of ''West Side
Story'' was presented for just three performances, under the auspices of
Carnegie Hall and the Weill Music Institute.

A culmination of the Somewhere Project, a citywide exploration of that classic
1957 musical that began in January, the production mixed professional actors
with 15 high-school-aged apprentices in the cast, supplemented by a whopping
chorus of 200 high school singers from 26 schools representing all five
boroughs. Conducting the lush 40-piece orchestra was the eminent Marin Alsop,
music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, who was once a protégée of
Leonard Bernstein, the composer of ''West Side Story,'' of course.

The site was fitting for this nontraditional but nevertheless faithful
production, which essentially dispensed with sets and featured simple,
contemporary costumes by Tracy Christensen. The show was performed on a long,
rectangular stage made to resemble a strip of roadway -- a drag strip, you might
say -- with the audience seated on three sides, some at tables and some in
bleacherlike seating.

Festive strings of lights hung above the stage, but it took me a while to even
notice, since so much blazing radiance was coming at me from the young
performers. The dancing, in particular, was so thrillingly ecstatic that I
wouldn't have been surprised if one of the high-flying Jets or Sharks took an
errant leap and landed on one of those stage-side tables.

Conceived by and directed with a fresh eye by Amanda Dehnert, this production
had an informal feeling, with the actors announcing the scenes, settings and
times of the action. But this smattering of meta-theatricality didn't detract
from the show's dramatic impact. Nor did the colorblind casting. The Jets
weren't all white, the Sharks weren't all Puerto Rican, and it didn't matter a
bit. They were easily identified by the color of their varied running shoes: red
for the Jets, lavender for the Sharks. (It was, I'll admit, a little
disconcerting to see a man bun on one of the Jets, who we associate with crisp
1950s cuts.)

Skylar Astin, seen onstage in ''Spring Awakening'' and on film in the ''Pitch
Perfect'' movies, made for a forcefully moving Tony, with a powerful voice and a
palpable ardor for his Maria, played with blooming innocence by Morgan
Hernandez, one of the non-Equity members in the cast, a freshman studying
musical theater at the Boston Conservatory.

As Maria's brother, Bernardo, leader of the Sharks, Donald Jones Jr. was a
virile presence, his love for his sister flaring into menace when he learned of
her clandestine romance. Manny Stark brought a cocky edginess to Riff, leader of
the Jets. And Bianca Marroquín was a sultry Anita, whose near-rape sets in
motion the events that bring the musical to its tragic climax.

Supplementing the young performers, in sterling fashion, were the stage veterans
Chuck Cooper, as both Doc and Officer Krupke, and Peter Gerety as Schrank, along
with Stanley Bahorek as Glad Hand.

This production retained much of Jerome Robbins's celebrated choreography, with
interpolations or adjustments made by Sean Cheesman in certain numbers, in some
cases to accommodate the unusual shape of the stage and the placement of the
audience. Mr. Cheesman also created new choreography for the high-energy ''Dance
at the Gym'' number. I felt jarred only during the ''Somewhere'' ballet
sequence, when the transition between Mr. Robbins's classically based steps and
Mr. Cheesman's less formal, contemporary style became apparent. In any case, the
dancing was breathtaking in its exuberance: Here was the raw energy of youth
channeled into formal patterns that nevertheless captured perfectly the
characters' emotional intensity and abandon.

I sat at the far end of the stage, the furthest distance from the orchestra, and
there were moments when the balance between (amplified) voices and (amplified)
musicians wasn't perfect. But to hear this rapturous score played by an
orchestra of such size, under the guidance of a first-rate conductor, was a pure
pleasure in itself.

For ''One Hand, One Heart'' and ''Somewhere,'' the cast members were joined by
that supersized youth chorus, mostly surrounding the stage and looking on at the
action, holding small candles. The sound of so many voices added a layer of
emotional plushness to the songs that was goose-pimple-inducing, and utterly
irresistible. So, really, was the entire production, which may have been
conceived in part as a public-spirited educational project, but ultimately
became a simple yet transporting production of a great musical.

''West Side Story'' continues through Sunday at the Knockdown Center, 52-19
Flushing Avenue, Queens; knockdown­.center.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/07/theater/review-carnegie-halls-west-side-story-
at-the-knockdown-center.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: West Side Story: A scene from the production presented by
Carnegie Hall and the Weill Music Institute at the Knockdown Center in Queens.
This show mixed professional actors with high-school-aged apprentices.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%);
HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); FILM (75%);
MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); THEATER (57%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
