
                               1 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Farhad and Mike's Week in Tech: Facebook Assistant

BYLINE: By FARHAD MANJOO and MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 886 words


Each Saturday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New
York Times, review the week's news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two
about the most important developments in the industry.

Mike: Aloha, Farhad! I am back from my Hawaiian vacation with a fabulous tan and
a desire to quit my job and move to Oahu forever. Alas, I will settle for
returning to our weekly newsletter, which is ... almost as nice.

Farhad: Admit it, you couldn't stand to be away. Our weekly chats about business
are much more fun than an island getaway.

Mike: Right. So.

This last week has been mostly bad news. The entire stock market took a dive,
then rebounded, then rebounded again from that rebound. I have no idea which
rebound we're on now. Tech stocks seem to be up, though, maybe thanks to Apple's
chief, Tim Cook?

We're still seeing fallout from the hacking of Ashley Madison, the website for
extramarital affairs, though apparently the site's users were mostly men talking
to women who never used the site. Oh, and Amazon's smartphone and tablet
division is having layoffs, per The Wall Street Journal, because I guess people
don't want to buy Amazon smartphones and tablets. (I know I don't.)

One thing I do want to talk about that received some attention on Wednesday:
Facebook's ''M'' project. It's a smart digital assistant, built directly into
Facebook's messaging app, and it's supposed to help people perform menial,
everyday tasks like ordering flowers for your spouse or booking a table at a
restaurant.

My first reactions were A) cool and B) ugh.

''Cool'' because this thing uses a mix of intelligent algorithms to suggest
things to you and human customer service reps who can help train M to become
better. It is also an interesting use of text messaging -- a tool that pretty
much everyone is accustomed to using for communication these days.

But I said ''ugh'' because this, along with so many other recent Silicon Valley
start-ups, seems like a thing created to satisfy the whims of people who are
flush with cash and mostly need to worry about so-called first-world problems.
If I ever get to the point where my biggest dilemma is that it's too difficult
for me to buy gifts or make restaurant reservations, then you can start playing
the world's tiniest violin for me. Am I being too cynical?

Farhad: I get your worry about Silicon Valley focusing on stuff for rich people
(I've fretted about it before), but from what I can tell, Facebook's M doesn't
sound like an app for ''the 1 Percent.''

Instead, it sounds more like an improved version of digital assistants like Siri
and Microsoft's Cortana (well, Facebook says it's improved; I haven't tried it).
I think of those assistants as friendly user interfaces for that most ubiquitous
assistant of all, Google.

I bet that when these artificial intelligent agents begin to work really well,
they'll be able to compress several Google searches and lots of clicking around
the web into a single query: Instead of going to a travel site to search for
flights and a hotel, agonizing over lots of choices, you will say, ''Hey, M,
book me a week in New York in the middle of September,'' and your software will
take care of the whole thing for you. And just as Google is useful for more than
just rich people, this sort of thing would probably find mainstream appeal -- as
useful for scheduling a doctor's appointment or child care as it is for booking
dinner at Per Se and a night at the Plaza.

Can you tell I'm really excited about artificial intelligence? I find Siri and
its kin pretty dumb today, but I can't wait for these bots to take over the
world. Why do you hate robots so much, Mike?

Mike: I don't know. I watched ''The Terminator'' a lot as a kid. I figure Skynet
will kill us all at some point.

Look, Yann LeCun, the man Facebook hired to work on artificial intelligence, is
a smart guy. So I don't discount his ability to do some truly amazing things in
this field, as well as David Marcus, the man running the M project inside of
Facebook Messenger.

Could A.I. one day accomplish a lot of cool things for us? Sure. Am I making a
big, paranoid leap of logic when I think that Facebook's restaurant reservations
robot could one day enslave humanity to do its cold, soulless bidding? Probably.

I'm just saying that someone has to be wary of this stuff, right? I mean, I've
got Stephen Hawking and Elon Musk on my side. And they're pretty smart guys,
too.

I sound like a Luddite. Sometimes I can't believe I'm a tech reporter.

Farhad: So let's get this straight -- in the span of a few paragraphs, you went
from worrying that Facebook was building a tool for the rich to speculating that
the new feature might be the first step in Mark Zuckerberg's plan to enslave us
all?

Actually, come to think of it, I don't really have much evidence that you're
wrong.

No, but seriously: I've been on the fence about these worries regarding
artificial intelligence. On the one hand, as you point out, many smart people
have expressed real alarm about future A.I. On the other hand, current A.I.
seems so unintelligent, and so potentially useful, that I can't help but
celebrate any innovation in the field.

What can I say? Some men like to watch the world burn.

Mike: I think we ended on an optimistic note? It's good to be back.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/technology/farhad-and-mikes-week-in-tech-faceb
ook-assistant.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%);
MOBILE DEVICES (87%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); SERVICE WORKERS
(76%); SMARTPHONES (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); TABLET COMPUTERS (71%);
LAYOFFS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); TEXT MESSAGING (64%);
STARTUPS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(90%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (52%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%)

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2983 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events in New Jersey. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to njtowns@nytimes.com

Comedy

HASBROUCK HEIGHTS Bananas Comedy Club Vanessa Hollingshead. Sept. 4 and 5 at 9
p.m. $20. Bananas Comedy Club, 283 Route 17 South. bananascomedyclub.com;
201-727-1090.

MORRISTOWN  Mayo Performing Arts Center Wendy Williams. Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. $39
to $79. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. 973-539-8008;
mayoarts.org.

RED BANK Count Basie Theater Eddie Izzard. Sept. 1 at 7:30 p.m. $49.50 to
$69.50. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. 732-842-9000;
countbasietheatre.org.

SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center All-Star Comedy Show, featuring
comics seen on Comedy Central, HBO, BET, STARZ and NBC. Aug. 30 at 7 p.m. $35 to
$45. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. 973-313-2787;
sopacnow.org.

Film

NEW BRUNSWICK Rutgers University-New Brunswick ''New Jersey Film Festival,''
featuring international films, American independent features, experimental and
short subjects, classic revivals and documentaries. Sept. 11 through Oct. 18. $9
and $10. Rutgers University-New Brunswick, 71 Hamilton Street. 848-932-8482;
njfilmfest.com.

RAHWAY Hamilton Stage ''Rahway International Film Festival,'' three days of
films, seminars, networking events and more. Through Aug. 30. $10 to $35.
Hamilton Stage, 360 Hamilton Street. 848-467-8073; rahwayfilmfest.com.

For Children

MANASQUAN Algonquin Arts Center ''Seussical,'' musical. Sept. 4 through 6. $16
to $25. Algonquin Arts Center, 173 Main Street. 732-528-9211; algonquinarts.com.

Music and Dance

ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center Ronnie Wells presents ''Ladies of the
60's,'' tribute concert. Sept. 11 at 8 p.m. $39 to $104. Bergen Performing Arts
Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. 201-227-1030; bergenpac.org.

JERSEY CITY J Owen Grundy Pier at Exchange Place The NJCU Alumni Jazz Big Band
pays tribute to the late Clark Terry, jazz concert featuring guest soloist
Wynton Marsalis appearing with an all-star big band under the direction of Dick
Lowenthal. Sept. 10 at 6:30 p.m. Free. J Owen Grundy Pier at Exchange Place,
908-832-1020; njcu.edu.

MAHWAH Sharp Theater East Gipsy Band, performing music from Hungary. Sept. 6 at
7:30 p.m. $18 to $28. Sharp Theater, 505 Ramapo Valley Road. 201-684-7844;
ramapo.edu/berriecenter.

MONTCLAIR The Van Vleck House and Gardens Jeffrey Gaines, singer-songwriter and
guitarist, and Freedy Johnston, singer-songwriter. Sept. 13 at 2 p.m. $22 and
$25. The Van Vleck House and Gardens, 21 Van Vleck Street. 973-744-0837;
vanvleck.org.

MORRISTOWN  Mayo Performing Arts Center An Intimate Evening with Justin Hayward,
lead singer, lead guitarist and songwriter for the Moody Blues. Aug. 30 at 8
p.m. $39 to $69. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. 973-539-8008;
mayoarts.org.

NEW BRUNSWICK Boyd Park Hub City Sounds: Performing and visual arts festival
featuring local artists. Weekends through Sept. 26, 2 to 6 p.m. Free. Boyd Park,
Route 18. 732-729-0320 ext. 201; newbrunswickarts.org.

NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater The Gipsy Kings, featuring Nicolas Reyes and Tonino
Baliardo. Sept. 11 at 8 p.m. $35 to $85. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue.
732-246-7469; statetheatrenj.org.

NEWARK  Prudential Center ''Ricardo Arjona 'Viaje' U.S. Tour,'' presented by
Felix Cabrera. Sept. 6 at 7 p.m. $43.75 to $143.75. Prudential Center, 25
Lafayette Street. 800-653-8000; prucenter.com.

NEWARK Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center The Jacksons and the
Commodores. Sept. 4 at 8 p.m. $45.50 to $115.50. El Gran Combo and Eddie
Palmieri Orchestra, 14-member salsa orchestra from Puerto Rico. Sept. 12 at 8
p.m. $41 to $96. Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center
Street. njpac.org; 888-466-5722.

SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center The Manhattans featuring Gerald
Alston. Sept. 11 at 8 p.m. $55 to $85. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1
Sopac Way. 973-313-2787; sopacnow.org.

WEST ORANGE Oskar Schindler Performing Arts Center West Orange Hispanic
Foundation Inaugural Party, an evening of merengue, bachata, mariachi and more.
Sept. 5 at 5 p.m. Free. Oskar Schindler Performing Arts Center, 4 Boland Drive.
973-669-7385; ospac.org.

Theater

CAPE MAY Cape May Stage, the Robert Shackleton Playhouse ''The Search for Signs
of Intelligent Life in the Universe,'' by Jane Wagner. Through Sept. 4. $53.
Cape May Stage, the Robert Shackleton Playhouse, 405 Lafayette Street.
capemaystage.com; 609-770-8311.

CAPE MAY East Lynne Theater Company, the First Presbyterian Church of Cape May
''Huckleberry Finn,'' based on the ''The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn''
adapted by James Rana. Through Sept. 5. $15 to $30. East Lynne Theater Company,
First Presbyterian Church of Cape May, 500 Hughes Street. 609-884-5898;
eastlynnetheater.org.

ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center ''The Shape of Things,'' drama by Neil
LaBute. Through Aug. 30. $19 and $34. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North
Van Brunt Street. bergenpac.org; 201-227-1030.

MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University ''Misalliance,'' by
George Bernard Shaw. Through Aug. 30. $32 to $62. F.M. Kirby Shakespeare
Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. shakespearenj.org; 973-408-5600.

ORADELL Bergen County Players, Little Firehouse Theater ''Guys and Dolls,''
music and lyrics by Frank Loesser, with book by Abe Burrows and Jo Swerling.
Sept. 12 through Oct. 10. $24. Bergen County Players, Little Firehouse Theater,
298 Kinderkamack Road. 201-261-4200; bcplayers.org.

PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center Tennessee Williams' ''Baby Doll,'' adapted for
the stage by Pierre Laville and Emily Mann. Sept. 11 through Oct. 11. $25 to
$95.50. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. 609-258-2787;
mccarter.org.

RED BANK Count Basie Theater ''Evita,'' presented by Phoenix Productions. Sept.
11 through 20. $22 to $32. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street.
732-842-9000; countbasietheatre.org.

RED BANK Two River Theater ''Seven Guitars,'' by August Wilson. Sept. 12 through
Oct. 4. $37 to $65. Two River Theater, 21 Bridge Avenue. 732-345-1400; trtc.org.

SOMERSET Villagers Theater ''The Musical Comedy Murders of 1940,'' comedy. Sept.
11 through 27. $15 and $20. Villagers Theater, 475 DeMott Lane. 732-873-2710;
villagerstheatre.com.

UNION Premiere Stages at Kean University ''The People Before the Park,'' new
play by Keith Josef Adkins. Sept. 3 through 20. $15 to $30. Premiere Stages at
Kean University, 1000 Morris Ave. 908-737-7469; kean.edu/premierestages.

Museums and Galleries

ASBURY PARK Exhibit No.9 ''Suprimitive,'' paintings and prints on paper and
canvas inspired by a mix of urban culture by Norwegian urban artist Atle Ostrem.
Through Sept. 20. Exhibit No.9, 550-102 Cookman Avenue. 908-818-8970;
exhibitnumber9.com.

ASBURY PARK Palette Gallery/ArtsSpace ''Lou Carbone-New Paintings.'' Through
Aug. 30. Palette Gallery/ArtsSpace, 716 Cookman Avenue. 201-981-2395.

BEDMINSTER The Center for Contemporary Art ''The Thing Itself,'' an exhibition
of little-known works on paper by 16 artists. ''+1,'' an exhibition of
paintings. ''Wishful Intentions,'' a site-specific installation by Katie Truk.
All, Sept. 11 through Oct. 24. Reception: Sept. 18, 6 to 8 p.m. Mondays through
Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. The Center
for Contemporary Art, 2020 Burnt Mills Road. 908-234-2345; ccabedminster.org.

BOONTON Speakeasy Art Gallery ''The Art of the Mix Tape,'' group exhibit.
Through Sept. 26. Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. and by
appointment. Speakeasy Art Gallery, 816 Main Street. speakeasyart.wix.com;
973-557-8268.

BOUND BROOK Hamilton Street Gallery ''Influences,'' an exhibition of new work by
the members of the New Art Group. Through Sept. 24. Reception: Sept. 13, 2 to 5
p.m. Hamilton Street Gallery, 6 Hamilton Street. hamiltonstreetgallery.com;
732-748-2092.

CAPE MAY Soma NewArt Gallery, Carpenter's Square Mall ''The Naturalist,'' new
oil paintings by artist Victor Grasso. Through Sept. 7. Mondays through Sundays,
10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Soma NewArt Gallery, Carpenter's Square Mall, 31 Perry Street.
609-898-7488; somagallery.net.

CLINTON Hunterdon Art Museum ''The Collage Journal: The First Decade,''
featuring the Art of Peter Jacobs. Through Sept. 6. ''To The Best of My
Recollection,'' an exhibition of drawings. Through Sept. 6. ''New Works on
Paper,'' solo show by Lisa Macchi, featuring Abstract Expressionist works.
Through Sept. 30. Donation: $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Hunterdon Art Museum, 7 Lower Center Street. 908-735-8415;
hunterdonartmuseum.org.

EAST HAMPTON The Drawing Room Works by artist Bryan Hunt, exploring themes that
range from natural phenomena to aviation and space exploration. Through Sept. 6.
Free. Mondays, Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 11
a.m. to 5 p.m. The Drawing Room, 66 Newtown Lane. 631-324-5016;
drawingroom-gallery.com.

EWING The College of New Jersey ''Fluctuations: TCNJ Faculty Exhibition,'' group
show. Sep. 2 through Oct. 11. Tuesdays through Thursdays, noon to 7 p.m.;
Sundays, 1 to 3 p.m. The College of New Jersey, 2000 Pennington Road.
609-771-2633; tcnjartgallery.tcnj.edu/.

GALLOWAY Stockton University Performing Art's Center ''Visual Arts Alumni
Triennial Exhibition.'' Through Nov. 3. Visual Arts Alumni Triennial Exhibition,
group show at the Stockton University Art Galleries. Through Nov. 3. Stockton
University Performing Arts Center, 101 Vera King Farris Drive.
stockton.edu/artgallery; 609-652-4566.

HALEDON American Labor Museum/Botto House National Landmark ''Workers and Their
Parade by Gary Schoichet,'' contemporary photography exhibit. Sept. 6 through
Dec. 31. $3 to $5 suggested donation; members and children under 12, free.
Wednesdays through Saturdays, 1 to 4 p.m., or by appointment. American Labor
Museum/Botto House National Landmark, 83 Norwood Street. 973-595-7953;
labormuseum.org.

HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture ''Robert Lobe: In the Forest of Drawn Metal,''
textured and painted aluminum wall reliefs. Through Jan. 17. ''Jae Ko:
Selections.'' Through Feb. 7. $10 to $15; members and children 5 and under,
free. Tuesdays through Sundays. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road.
groundsforsculpture.org; 609-586-0616.

HOBOKEN Hoboken Historical Museum ''Frank Sinatra: The Man, the Voice, and the
Fans,'' multimedia. Through July 3, 2016. $3; members, free. ''The Beadist:
Artworks by Jan Huling,'' found objects decorated with beads in abstract
patterns. Through Sept. 13. $3; members, free. Tuesdays through Thursdays, 2 to
7 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Hoboken
Historical Museum, 1301 Hudson Street. hobokenmuseum.org; 201-656-2240.

ISLAND HEIGHTS John F. Peto Studio Museum ''Is It Real? Contemporary Sculpture
That Tricks the Eye.'' Through Sept. 6. John F. Peto Studio Museum, 102 Cedar
Avenue. 732-929-4949; petomuseum.org.

ISLAND HEIGHTS Ocean County Artists' Guild ''Viva Cuba!'' Street photography of
Havana. Sept. 6 through Sept. 29. Reception: Sept. 13, at 1 p.m. Free. Ocean
County Artists' Guild, Chestnut and Ocean Avenue. 732-270-3111;
ocartistsguild.org.

JERSEY CITY Art House Productions Gallery ''3: Patricia Dahlman, Robyn
Ellenbogen, Julie McHargue.'' Group show. Through Sept. 27. Sundays, noon to 3
p.m. and by appointment. Art House Productions Gallery, 136 Magnolia Avenue.
201-915-9911. arthouseproductions.org.

JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Beyond Planet Earth: The Future of Space
Exploration.'' Through Sept. 20. $11.75 to $21.75. Daily, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Liberty Science Center, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. 201-200-1000; lsc.org.

LAMBERTVILLE Pedersen Gallery ''Jersey Shore Impressionists 1890-1980,'' works
by leading artists of the Jersey Shore. Through Sept. 12. Pedersen Gallery, 17
North Union Street. 609-397-1332; pedersengallery.com.

LAMBERTVILLE The Artists' Gallery ''Cafes and Cadillacs,'' works by Richard
Harrington and Alla Podolsky in watercolor, acrylic and oil. Through Sept. 6.
''Watermarks, Animals and Nature,'' paintings in water media by Beatrice Bork
and Carol Sanzalone. Sept. 10 through Oct. 4. Free. Sept. 12, 4 to 8 p.m.
Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. The Artists' Gallery, 18
Bridge Street. 609-397-4588; lambertvillearts.com.

LINCROFT Monmouth Museum ''Please Touch! Sculpture Exhibition.'' Through Sept.
6. $7; members and children under 2, free. ''Archeology: Shared Wisdom,'' works
by Kevan Lunney. Through Sept. 13. $7; members and children under 2, free.
Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Monmouth
Museum, 765 Newman Springs Road. 732-747-2266; monmouthmuseum.org.

MADISON Drew University ''Linemaker,'' drawings and paintings by Jason Karolak.
Sept. 3 through Oct. 8. Free. Tuesdays through Fridays, 12:30 to 4 p.m. Drew
University, 36 Madison Avenue. 973-408-3758; drew.edu/korngallery.

MONTCLAIR Montclair Art Museum ''Basket Mania: Collecting Native Basketry in the
Late Victorian Era.'' Through Aug. 30. ''Illustrations and Literary Themes in
American Art: Works From the Collection.'' Through Jan. 3. ''Work and Leisure in
American Art: Selected Works From the Collection.'' Sept. 13 through June 19.
''Eric Carle: Animals and Friends,'' featuring work by children's book author
and illustrator Eric Carle. Sept. 13 through Jan. 3. $12 adults, $10 seniors and
students; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon
to 5 p.m. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue. 973-746-5555;
montclairartmuseum.org.

MONTCLAIR The Gallery at Hillside Square ''Superior Apartments,'' photographs of
the Bronx by Ira Wagner. Through Sept. 4. Mondays through Fridays, 7 a.m. to 7
p.m. The Gallery at Hillside Square, 8 Hillside Avenue. iwphotoart.com;
212-729-3399.

MONTCLAIR Yogi Berra Museum & Learning Center ''Saving Face: The Evolution of
the Catcher and Goalie Mask.'' Through Oct. 4. $6; under 18, $4. Wednesdays
through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Yogi Berra Museum and Learning Center, 8 Yogi
Berra Drive. yogiberramuseum.org; 973-655-2378.

MORRISTOWN Macculloch Hall Historical Museum ''Canals of New Jersey,'' an
exhibition about New Jersey's two towpath canals, the Morris and the Delaware
and Raritan. Through Oct. 29. $6 to $8; children ages 6 to 12; $4 and children
under 5, free. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Macculloch Hall
Historical Museum, 45 Macculloch Avenue. maccullochhall.org; 973-538-2404.

MORRISTOWN Morris Museum ''Musically, Made in New Jersey,'' exploring the
state's history of manufacturing musical instruments. Through Oct. 18. $7 to
$10. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays,
11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights
Road. 973-971-3700; morrismuseum.org.

NEWARK The Newark Museum ''Rajas, Wrestlers and Renunciants: Portraits from
Asia.'' Through Feb. 28.$7 and $12; members, free. Wednesdays through Sundays,
noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. 973-596-6550;
newarkmuseum.org.

PATERSON Lambert Castle ''Can the Kaiser: Patriotism and Propaganda in American
Posters From the Great War 1917-1918.'' Through Oct. 4. $3 to $5. Wednesdays
through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Lambert Castle, 3 Valley Road.
lambertcastle.org; 973-247-0085, ext. 201.

PRINCETON Bernstein Gallery ''After Genocide: Collected Stories,'' group
exhibition. Through Oct. 8. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bernstein
Gallery, Robertson Hall. 609-497-2441;
wws.princeton.edu/about-wws/bernstein-gallery.

PRINCETON D&R Greenway ''Species on the Edge,'' an array of compelling nature
images and essays on the state's threatened and endangered wildlife. Through
Sept. 4. D&R Greenway, One Preservation Place. drgreenway.org; 609-924-4646.

PRINCETON Morven Museum and Garden ''Of the Best Materials and Good Workmanship:
19th-Century New Jersey Chairmaking.'' Through Oct. 18. $5 and $6. Wednesdays
through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Morven
Museum and Garden, 55 Stockton Street. 609-924-8144; morven.org.

PRINCETON Princeton University Art Museum ''Painting on Paper: American
Watercolors at Princeton,'' works by Edward Hopper and others. Through Aug. 30.
''Collecting Contemporary, 1960-2015: Selections From the Schorr Collection,''
works by Andy Warhol and others. Through Sept. 20. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays
and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5
p.m. Princeton University Art Museum, Princeton University Campus.
artmuseum.princeton.edu; 609-258-3788.

RED BANK Oyster Point Hotel An abstract art exhibition featuring four artists
and more than 40 paintings. Through Aug. 31. Oyster Point Hotel, 146 Bodman
Place. 732-530-8200; theoysterpointhotel.com.

WAYNE William Paterson University ''Faculty Exhibition,'' group show at the
William Paterson University Galleries, South Gallery. Sept. 8 through Oct. 16.
''Raymond Saá: New Work,'' at the William Paterson University Galleries, Court
Gallery. Sept. 8 through Oct. 16. ''Recent Indigenous Art of India.'' Sept. 8
through Oct. 16. William Paterson University, William Paterson University
Galleries, 300 Pompton Road. 877-978-3923; wpunj.edu.

WEST ORANGE JCC MetroWest Abstract paintings by Meesook Choe. Sept. 10 through
Oct. 25. Reception: Sept. 20, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. JCC MetroWest, 760 Northfield
Avenue. jccmetrowest.org/artgalleries; 973-530-3413.

WESTFIELD Gallery U ''Across Water,'' works by Michael Endy. Sept. 4 through
Oct. 5. Mondays through Saturdays 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sundays noon to 4 p.m.
Gallery U, 439 South Avenue West. 908-232-1895; gallery-u.blogspot.com.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/things-to-do-in-new-jersey-aug-30-to-
sept-6-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHREWSBURY: ''Beauty for Ashes'' (2014), mixed media, is one of
the works in the ''Paul Hansen Show'' at the Guild of Creative Art, 620 Broad
Street, through Sept. 30. Information: 732-741-1441
guildofcreativeart.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HANSON)
HOLMDEL: Amy Schumer performs at the ''Oddball Comedy Fest,'' also starring Aziz
Ansari, at the PNC Bank Arts Center, 116 Garden State Parkway, on Sept. 5 at
5:15 p.m. Tickets are $41.75 to $217.25. livenation.com
732-203-2500.
LONG BRANCH: From left, Jacob A. Ware, Judith Hawking, Gregory Haney and Layla
Khoshnoudi in ''Nobody's Girl,'' by Rick Viede, presented by the New Jersey
Repertory Company at the Lumia Theater, 179 Broadway, through Sept. 20. Tickets:
$45 and $60. For information: 732-229-3166
njrep.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE BARABAS)
ASBURY PARK: The reggae singer Damian Marley will perform in the Catch a Fire
Tour 2015, with Stephen Marley, Morgan Heritage, Tarrus Riley and others, at the
Stone Pony, 913 Ocean Avenue, on Sept. 6 at 3 p.m. Tickets are $39.50 and $45.
Information: 732-502-0600
 stoneponyonline.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILBERT BELLAMY/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%);
CALENDARS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%);
FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); MUSIC (86%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS
& EXHIBITIONS (76%); DANCE (76%); FILM FESTIVALS (72%); SONG WRITING (69%);
DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); THEATER (56%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (82%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: AMY SCHUMER (79%); AZIZ ANSARI (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rousting the Book Pirates From Google

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE HAGGLER;
Pg. 3

LENGTH: 993 words


The Haggler will now don his professorial tweeds because he starts this episode
in teacher mode. All of the action below revolves around the Google Play store,
an online destination that may be unfamiliar to Apple fans. So a brief
explanation. You know iBooks, iTunes and the App Store? Well, Google Play is all
of those rolled together, for anyone using devices with the Android operating
system.

Google Play has been criticized as a sort of vast and unruly garden compared
with Apple's impeccably mowed lawns. In Forbes recently, Erik Kain called Google
Play ''an ugly, poorly organized store filled with myriad knockoffs, dubious
'games' and other apps.'' That sounds a bit harsh to the Haggler, a Google Play
regular who has had mostly positive experiences.

That said, the site has problems.

Q. Book piracy has taken a new form. Someone scanned my entire e-book, ''Graphic
Design Solutions,'' created a new cover and is selling it on Google Play. It is
the same e-book, verbatim, and inside are the same images, same layout and the
same interviews. The only difference is the name of the author. A person named
Jazmin Bonilla gets the credit.

My royalties have plummeted, which affects my ability to donate to scholarships
for my university students. Both my publisher and I have notified Google, but no
action has been taken. Maybe the company will listen to you.

ROBIN LANDA, NEW YORK

A. The Haggler's first thought: Find Jazmin Bonilla. Call and ask, ''Is it a
spectacular coincidence that you wrote the exact same book as Robin Landa? Or,
are you a fiction invented by an e-book pirate? And if you are a fiction, why do
you have a phone?''

Actually, his first thought was that if e-book piracy were a serious issue on
Google Play, there would be other examples. There are many. A quick search led
the Haggler to a site called The Digital Reader. There, the writer Nate
Hoffelder detailed ''rampant'' e-book piracy, as he put it in a May post, in
Google Play. He found that one shop was selling more than 100 pirated versions
of best sellers by authors like Malcolm Gladwell, Sidney Sheldon and Ellery
Queen.

They cost $2.11 each. But even these oddly priced bargains were kind of a
rip-off. Mr. Hoffelder downloaded a few and found they ''were clearly inferior
copies with missing formatting, generic or outdated covers, and other
problems,'' he wrote.

Another site, Goodereader, also took note of the issue in May. ''Google Play is
quickly becoming a den of iniquity and a veritable cesspool of piracy.''
(Haggler interruption: Imagine a place with both a den and a cesspool. Ick.)
''If you casually browse the Google Play Books section, it is fairly easy to
find all of the modern best sellers, at a fraction of the price.'' This post's
writer, Michael Kozlowski, found all the ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' books, the
whole Harry Potter oeuvre and some work by that ''Game of Thrones'' guy, George
R.R. Martin.

Mr. Hoffelder said that Google was aware of the problem but responded slowly to
complaints from authors and publishers and sometimes did not respond at all. As
bad, when the company acted, he stated, it would often remove pirated e-books
but allow e-book pirates to remain on the site.

So the Haggler contacted Google. He included a link to both the authentic
''Graphic Design Solutions'' in Google Play as well as the fake. A guy named
Matt McLernon immediately got in touch. Like many members of Google's public
relations staff, Mr. McLernon was exceptionally pleasant -- and hamstrung.
Google is forever worried that the details of its inner workings will be used to
game its algorithms and filters and secret sauces by an assortment of
miscreants. So its P.R. team is filled with really bright, really friendly
people who dearly wish they could be more helpful.

That said, we have enough light to see what happened. About 18 months ago,
Google Play started selling self-published e-books. Any author could post and
sell his or her work on the site. But in February -- and why this started then
is a mystery that Mr. McLernon did not explain -- a wave of piracy was spotted
by book publishers.

''It was mostly e-books in the science fiction genre,'' said Chantal
Restivo-Alessi, chief digital officer at HarperCollins. ''So we had a number of
calls with Google.''

It emerged that the pirated books were being uploaded by people using Google
Play through its self-publishing channel. People were opening accounts,
ostensibly to publish their own work, and then selling digital copies of
popular, and not so popular, e-books that they had not written.

''I don't know if it is my immense power,'' Ms. Restivo-Alessi said, ''or if
they were having similar conversations with other publishers at the time, but
they listened to me, and they shut down the point of entry for these pirates.''

Mr. McLernon confirmed this. In May, Google stopped enrolling any new
self-publishing authors. At the same time, a team of employees went through all
of the complaints filed by publishers. Pirate accounts were deleted. (The
company eventually plans to restart the program.)

So why was a fake ''Graphic Design Solutions'' still up in July, when Ms. Landa
contacted the Haggler? Apparently, there was a backlog of ''Hey, that guy is a
pirate'' notices, and Google did not get to them all very quickly.

''Unfortunately, a small number of notices to Google Play Books were delayed
longer than we'd like,'' Mr. McLernon wrote by email, ''but we're fixing that
issue and have taken other measures to combat future issues.''

The Haggler's email might have pushed Ms. Landa's complaint to the front of the
line. A few days after he emailed Google, she discovered that the fake ''Graphic
Design Solutions'' had vanished from the site.

Email: haggler@nytimes.com or tweet to @TheHagglerNYT. Keep it family-friendly
and under 250 words, include your hometown and go easy on the caps-lock key.
Letters may be edited for clarity and length.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/your-money/rousting-the-book-pirates-from-goog
le.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH HITZ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); ONLINE PIRACY
(89%); WRITERS (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); BESTSELLERS (73%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fitzpatrick Finds Rhythm as the Jets' Offense Shows a Pulse

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; JETS 28, GIANTS 18 (EXHIBITION); Pg.
11

LENGTH: 1007 words


EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. --  Every day, Ryan Fitzpatrick says, his connection with
the Jets' receivers gets a little better. Their timing improves, their
relationships blossom, and their tendencies become more and more familiar to one
another.

The next two weeks will be critical. That is how much time Fitzpatrick has to
develop harmony before the regular season, when his misfires will be magnified.
Fitzpatrick's performance in his final preseason appearance, a 28-18 victory
over the Giants at MetLife Stadium, resembled that of his team: encouraging, if
inconclusive.

On a night when the Jets also scored touchdowns on defense and special teams, it
augured well that Fitzpatrick, thrust into the starting role less than three
weeks ago after Geno Smith sustained a broken jaw when he was slugged by a
teammate, engineered two scoring drives on their first four possessions. He
completed six of nine passes to his top two receivers: Eric Decker, who slipped
behind coverage to snare an 18-yard touchdown pass in the first quarter, and
Brandon Marshall.

''The older guys got to prove they can still play,'' Coach Todd Bowles said,
adding of Fitzpatrick, ''He proved that tonight.''

All Fitzpatrick wanted to accomplish Saturday, he said, was to lead productive
drives -- plenty of first downs, some touchdowns, hardly any penalties or
debilitating mistakes.

On his five series, the Jets gained first downs on all but the last, with five
receivers catching passes, and they did not commit their first penalty -- they
had two with Fitzpatrick at quarterback -- until late in the first half.

It was the Giants who lapsed, botching their coverage in the end zone on
Decker's touchdown and failing to account for Zac Stacy on a screen pass that he
turned into a 24-yard score. That was the final completion for Fitzpatrick, who
went 9 of 14 for 127 yards and two touchdowns before giving way in the second
half to the rookie Bryce Petty, who was 5 of 8 for 42 yards. In three preseason
games, a Jets quarterback has yet to throw an interception.

''I've gotten everything accomplished that I kind of wanted to get checked off
in the preseason,'' Fitzpatrick said, adding: ''When the season comes along,
it's going to be a whole lot different out there in terms of the intensity, the
type of defense, the schemes, all the different blitzes. It'll be different, but
this was a nice tuneup.''

Fitzpatrick outshined his counterpart on the Giants, Eli Manning, who is trying
to become comfortable with his own receivers. Until Saturday night, Manning had
not completed a pass this preseason to Odell Beckham Jr., who failed to grab any
of the five thrown his way last week against Jacksonville. Finding space in the
Jets' coverage, Beckham caught five passes for 31 yards, and if not for a foot
that landed out of bounds, he would have hauled in a spectacular one-hander on
the sideline against Darrelle Revis.

''It didn't count, man,'' Revis said. ''Didn't count.''

Manning completed 12 of 16 passes for 91 yards, but his final attempt was his
worst.

Moving up in the pocket, Manning apparently did not see Antonio Cromartie, who
broke in front of James Jones and returned an interception 59 yards for a
touchdown with six seconds remaining before halftime, giving the Jets a 21-7
lead.

The third game is usually the most meaningful of the preseason schedule,
showcasing the starters before they -- most of them, anyway -- spend the finale
on Thursday watching from the sideline. After sluggish starts in their first two
exhibition games, the Jets harbored modest goals against the Giants.

It would be reassuring, they felt, if Fitzpatrick could lead the starters to a
touchdown against the first-string defense, something he had yet to do this
preseason. And it would be doubly soothing, they felt, if the Jets' defense --
their supposed strength -- could manage not to allow a long scoring drive on the
first series, as it had against Detroit and Atlanta.

Buoyed by consistent pressure up front and a stingier rush defense --
highlighted by the return of Muhammad Wilkerson, who returned to practice last
week after missing three weeks with a hamstring injury -- the Jets forced three
punts and a turnover on Manning's five full first-half possessions. The only
blemish was a 1-yard touchdown run by Rashad Jennings, capping a 14-play,
85-yard drive aided by two penalties in coverage by Jets linebacker Demario
Davis, and even then the Jets offset the touchdown with Cromartie's
interception.

''I just felt like we made progress,'' Bowles said. ''Our goal is to make
progress each week. We try to get better at something. We tried to start fast.
We started faster this week.''

Bowles was so incensed with the Jets' lack of discipline against the Falcons in
the previous week, when they committed 17 penalties, that he instituted sprints
if they were flagged more than five times during practice.

That they had eight more against the Giants frustrated him, though he was
impressed by Walter Powell, who is trying to emerge from a crowded pack of
receivers.

Powell is not as polished as other candidates, like Chris Owusu or Quincy
Enunwa, but he is valuable on special teams, and he scored on a 54-yard punt
return.

Powell is likely to get one final opportunity on Thursday, when the Jets finish
the preseason at home against Philadelphia. Bowles said he had not decided who
would play, but if his starters will not dress again until the Sept. 13 opener
against Cleveland, he sounded pleased with their progress so far.

''I feel like we've grown quite a bit,'' Bowles said.

EXTRA POINTS

The rookie defensive end LEONARD WILLIAMS left the game with a knee injury. He
was scheduled for testing on Sunday, but TODD BOWLES said he did not have any
other information on Williams's condition. ... Giants defensive end ROBERT AYERS
sustained an ankle injury in warm-ups and did not play. ... The new rule pushing
extra points back to the 15-yard line claimed Jets kicker NICK FOLK, who missed
wide right in the second quarter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/football/ryan-fitzpatrick-and-jets-make
-strides-but-have-long-way-to-go.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ryan Fitzpatrick went 9 of 14 for 127 yards and two touchdowns
against the Giants on Saturday night before giving way in the second half to the
rookie Bryce Petty. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SOLOMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%)

PERSON: ELI MANNING (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Her Excellence

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA RANKINE.

Christopher Griffith is an award-winning photographer based in New York and
known for his minimalist and graphic imagery. He last photographed a series of
shoe shiners' hands for the magazine.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE U.S. OPEN ISSUE; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 2774 words


There is no more exuberant winner than Serena Williams. She leaps into the air,
she laughs, she grins, she pumps her fist, she points her index finger to the
sky, signaling she's No. 1. Her joy is palpable. It brings me to my feet, and I
grin right back at her, as if I've won something, too. Perhaps I have.

There is a belief among some African-Americans that to defeat racism, they have
to work harder, be smarter, be better. Only after they give 150 percent will
white Americans recognize black excellence for what it is. But of course, once
recognized, black excellence is then supposed to perform with good manners and
forgiveness in the face of any racist slights or attacks. Black excellence is
not supposed to be emotional as it pulls itself together to win after
questionable calls. And in winning, it's not supposed to swagger, to leap and
pump its fist, to state boldly, in the words of Kanye West, ''That's what it is,
black excellence, baby.''

Imagine you have won 21 Grand Slam singles titles, with only four losses in your
25 appearances in the finals. Imagine that you've achieved two ''Serena Slams''
(four consecutive Slams in a row), the first more than 10 years ago and the
second this year. A win at this year's U.S. Open would be your fifth and your
first calendar-year Grand Slam -- a feat last achieved by Steffi Graf in 1988,
when you were just 6 years old. This win would also break your tie for the most
U.S. Open titles in the Open era, surpassing the legendary Chris Evert, who
herself has called you ''a phenomenon that once every hundred years comes
around.'' Imagine that you're the player John McEnroe recently described as
''the greatest player, I think, that ever lived.'' Imagine that, despite all
this, there were so many bad calls against you, you were given as one reason
video replay needed to be used on the courts. Imagine that you have to contend
with critiques of your body that perpetuate racist notions that black women are
hypermasculine and unattractive. Imagine being asked to comment at a news
conference before a tournament because the president of the Russian Tennis
Federation, Shamil Tarpischev, has described you and your sister as ''brothers''
who are ''scary'' to look at. Imagine.

The word ''win'' finds its roots in both joy and grace. Serena's grace comes
because she won't be forced into stillness; she won't accept those racist
projections onto her body without speaking back; she won't go gently into the
white light of victory. Her excellence doesn't mask the struggle it takes to
achieve each win. For black people, there is an unspoken script that demands the
humble absorption of racist assaults, no matter the scale, because whites need
to believe that it's no big deal. But Serena refuses to keep to that script.
Somehow, along the way, she made a decision to be excellent while still being
Serena. She would feel what she feels in front of everyone, in response to
anyone. At Wimbledon this year, for example, in a match against the home
favorite Heather Watson, Serena, interrupted during play by the deafening
support of Watson, wagged her index finger at the crowd and said, ''Don't try
me.'' She will tell an audience or an official that they are disrespectful or
unjust, whether she says, simply, ''No, no, no'' or something much more
forceful, as happened at the U.S. Open in 2009, when she told the lineswoman,
''I swear to God I am [expletive] going to take this [expletive] ball and shove
it down your [expletive] throat.'' And in doing so, we actually see her. She
shows us her joy, her humor and, yes, her rage. She gives us the whole range of
what it is to be human, and there are those who can't bear it, who can't
tolerate the humanity of an ordinary extraordinary person.

In the essay ''Everybody's Protest Novel,'' James Baldwin wrote, ''our humanity
is our burden, our life; we need not battle for it; we need only to do what is
infinitely more difficult -- that is, accept it.'' To accept the self, its
humanity, is to discard the white racist gaze. Serena has freed herself from it.
But that doesn't mean she won't be emotional or hurt by challenges to her
humanity. It doesn't mean she won't battle for the right to be excellent. There
is nothing wrong with Serena, but surely there is something wrong with the
expectation that she be ''good'' while she is achieving greatness. Why should
Serena not respond to racism? In whose world should it be answered with good
manners? The notable difference between black excellence and white excellence is
white excellence is achieved without having to battle racism. Imagine.

Two years ago, recovering from cancer and to celebrate my 50th birthday, I flew
from LAX to J.F.K. during Serena's semifinal match at the U.S. Open with the
hope of seeing her play in the final. I had just passed through a year when so
much was out of my control, and Serena epitomized not so much winning as the
pure drive to win. I couldn't quite shake the feeling (I still can't quite shake
it) that my body's frailty, not the cancer but the depth of my exhaustion, had
been brought on in part by the constant onslaught of racism, whether something
as terrible as the killing of Trayvon Martin or something as mundane as the guy
who let the door slam in my face. The daily grind of being rendered invisible,
or being attacked, whether physically or verbally, for being visible, wears a
body down. Serena's strength and focus in the face of the realities we shared
oddly consoled me.

That Sunday in Arthur Ashe Stadium at the women's final, though the crowd
generally seemed pro-Serena, the man seated next to me was cheering for the
formidable tall blonde Victoria Azarenka. I asked him if he was American.
''Yes,'' he said.

''We're at the U.S. Open. Why are you cheering for the player from Belarus?'' I
asked.

''Oh, I just want the match to be competitive,'' he said.

After Serena lost the second set, at the opening of the third, I turned to him
again, and asked him, no doubt in my own frustration, why he was still cheering
for Azarenka. He didn't answer, as was his prerogative. By the time it was clear
that Serena was likely to win, his seat had been vacated. I had to admit to
myself that in those moments I needed her to win, not just in the pure sense of
a fan supporting her player, but to prove something that could never be proven,
because if black excellence could cure us of anything, black people -- or rather
this black person -- would be free from needing Serena to win.

''You don't understand me,'' Serena Williams said with a hint of impatience in
her voice. ''I'm just about winning.'' She and I were facing each other on a
sofa in her West Palm Beach home this July. She looked at me with wariness as if
to say, Not you, too. I wanted to talk about the tennis records that she is
presently positioned either to tie or to break and had tried more than once to
steer the conversation toward them. But she was clear: ''It's not about getting
22 Grand Slams,'' she insisted. Before winning a calendar-year Grand Slam and
matching Steffi Graf's record of 22 Slams, Serena would have to win seven
matches and defend her U.S. Open title; those were the victories that she was
thinking about.

She was wearing an enviable pink jumpsuit with palm trees stamped all over it as
if to reflect the trees surrounding her estate. It was a badass outfit, one only
someone of her height and figure could rock. She explained to me that she
learned not to look ahead too much by looking ahead. As she approached 18 Grand
Slam wins in 2014, she said, ''I went too crazy. I felt I had to even up with
Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova.'' Instead, she didn't make it past the
fourth round at the Australian Open, the second at the French Open or the third
at Wimbledon. She tried to change her tactics and focused on getting only to the
quarterfinals of the U.S. Open. Make it to the second week and see what happens,
she thought. ''I started thinking like that, and then I got to 19. Actually I
got to 21 just like that, so I'm not thinking about 22.'' She raised her water
bottle to her lips, looking at me over its edge, as if to give me time to think
of a different line of questioning.

Three years ago she partnered with the French tennis coach Patrick Mouratoglou,
and I've wondered if his coaching has been an antidote to negotiating American
racism, a dynamic that informed the coaching of her father, Richard Williams. He
didn't want its presence to prevent her and Venus from winning. In his
autobiography, ''Black and White: The Way I See It,'' he describes toughening
the girls' ''skin'' by bringing ''busloads of kids from the local schools into
Compton to surround the courts while Venus and Serena practiced. I had the kids
call them every curse word in the English language, including 'Nigger,' '' he
writes. ''I paid them to do it and told them to 'do their worst.' '' His focus
on racism meant that the sisters were engaged in two battles on and off the
court. That level of vigilance, I know from my own life, can drain you. It's
easier to shut up and pretend it's not happening, as the bitterness and stress
build up.

Mouratoglou shifted Serena's focus to records (even if, as she prepares for a
Slam, she says she can't allow herself to think about them). Perhaps it's not
surprising that she broke her boycott against Indian Wells, where the audience
notoriously booed her with racial epithets in 2001, during their partnership.
Serena's decisions now seem directed toward building her legacy. Mouratoglou has
insisted that she can get to 24 Grand Slams, which is the most won by a single
player -- Margaret Court -- to date. Serena laughed as she recalled one of her
earliest conversations with Mouratoglou. She told him: ''I'm cool. I want to
play tennis. I hate to lose. I want to win. But I don't have numbers in my
head.'' He wouldn't allow that. ''Now we are getting numbers in your head,'' he
told her.

I asked how winning felt for her. I was imagining winning as a free space, one
where the unconscious racist shenanigans of umpires, or the narratives about her
body, her ''unnatural'' power, her perceived crassness no longer mattered.
Unless racism destroyed the moment of winning so completely, as it did at Indian
Wells, I thought it had to be the rare space free of all the stresses of black
life. But Serena made it clear that she doesn't desire to dissociate from her
history and her culture. She understands that even when she's focused only on
winning, she is still representing. ''I play for me,'' Serena told me, ''but I
also play and represent something much greater than me. I embrace that. I love
that. I want that. So ultimately, when I am out there on the court, I am playing
for me.''

Her next possible victory is at the U.S. Open, the major where she has been
involved in the most drama -- everything from outrageous line calls to
probations and fines. Serena admitted to losing her cool in the face of some of
what has gone down there. In 2011, for example, a chair umpire, Eva Asderaki,
ruled against Serena for yelling ''Come on'' before a point was completed, and
as Serena described it to me, she ''clutched her pearls'' and told Asderaki not
to look at her. But she said in recent years she finally felt embraced by the
crowd. ''No more incidents?'' I asked. Before she could answer, we both laughed,
because of course it's not wholly in her control. Then suddenly Serena stopped.
''I don't want any incidents there,'' she said. ''But I'm always going to be
myself. If anything happens, I'm always going to be myself, true to myself.''

I'm counting on it, I thought. Because just as important to me as her victories
is her willingness to be an emotionally complete person while also being black.
She wins, yes, but she also loses it. She jokes around, gets angry, is
frustrated or joyous, and on and on. She is fearlessly on the side of Serena, in
a culture that that has responded to living while black with death.

This July, the London School of Marketing (L.S.M.) released its list of the most
marketable sports stars, which included only two women in its Top 20: Maria
Sharapova and Serena Williams. They were ranked 12th and 20th. Despite
decisively trailing Serena on the tennis court (Serena leads in their
head-to-head matchups 18-2, and has 21 majors and 247 weeks at No. 1 to
Sharapova's five majors and 21 weeks at number 1), Sharapova has a financial
advantage off the court. This month Forbes listed her as the highest-paid female
athlete, worth more than $29 million to Serena's $24 million.

When I asked Chris Evert about the L.S.M. list, she said, ''I think the
corporate world still loves the good-looking blond girls.'' It's a preference
Evert benefited from in her own illustrious career. I suggested that this had to
do with race. Serena, on occasion, has herself been a blonde. But of course, for
millions of consumers, possibly not the right kind of blonde. ''Maria was very
aware of business and becoming a businesswoman at a much younger stage,'' Evert
told me, adding, ''She works hard.'' She also suggested that any demonstration
of corporate preference is about a certain ''type'' of look or image, not
whiteness in general. When I asked Evert what she made of Eugenie Bouchard, the
tall, blond Canadian who has yet to really distinguish herself in the sport,
being named the world's most marketable athlete by the British magazine
SportsPro this spring, she said, with a laugh, ''Well, there you have it.'' I
took her statement to be perhaps a moment of agreement that Serena probably
could not work her way to Sharapova's spot on Forbes's list.

''If they want to market someone who is white and blond, that's their choice,''
Serena told me when I asked her about her ranking. Her impatience had returned,
but I wasn't sure if it was with me, the list or both. ''I have a lot of
partners who are very happy to work with me.'' JPMorgan Chase, Wilson Sporting
Goods, Pepsi and Nike are among the partners she was referring to. ''I can't sit
here and say I should be higher on the list because I have won more.'' As for
Sharapova, her nonrival rival, Serena was diplomatic: ''I'm happy for her,
because she worked hard, too. There is enough at the table for everyone.''

There is another, perhaps more important, discussion to be had about what it
means to be chosen by global corporations. It has to do with who is worthy, who
is desirable, who is associated with the good life. As long as the white
imagination markets itself by equating whiteness and blondness with aspirational
living, stereotypes will remain fixed in place. Even though Serena is the best,
even though she wins more Slams than anyone else, she is only superficially
allowed to embody that in our culture, at least the marketable one.

But Serena was less interested in the ramifications involved in being chosen,
since she had no power in this arena, and more interested in understanding her
role in relation to those who came before her: ''We have to be thankful, and we
also have to be positive about it so the next black person can be No. 1 on that
list,'' she told me. ''Maybe it was not meant to be me. Maybe it's meant to be
the next person to be amazing, and I'm just opening the door. Zina Garrison,
Althea Gibson, Arthur Ashe and Venus opened so many doors for me. I'm just
opening the next door for the next person.''

I was moved by Serena's positioning herself in relation to other
African-Americans. A crucial component of white privilege is the idea that your
accomplishments can be, have been, achieved on your own. The private clubs that
housed the tennis courts remained closed to minorities well into the second half
of the 20th century. Serena reminded me that in addition to being a phenomenon,
she has come out of a long line of African-Americans who battled for the right
to be excellent in a such a space that attached its value to its whiteness and
worked overtime to keep it segregated.

Serena's excellence comes with the ability to imagine herself achieving a new
kind of history for all of us. As long as she remains healthy, she will most
likely tie and eventually pass Graf's 22 majors, regardless of what happens at
the U.S. Open this year. I want Serena to win, but I know better than to think
her winning can end something she didn't start. But Serena is providing a new
script, one in which winning doesn't carry the burden of curing racism, in which
we win just to win -- knowing that it is simply her excellence, baby.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/the-meaning-of-serena-williams.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GRIFFITH) (MM38)
21 and Counting: Serena Williams raising her Grand Slam trophies.
U.S. Open, 1999 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE SQUIRE)
French Open, 2002 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDRE DURAND/AFP)
Australian Open, 2007 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORSTEN BLACKWOOD/AFP)
U.S. Open, 2008 (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON EMMERT/AFP)
U.S. Open, 2012 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMMY HINDLEY)
French Open, 2013 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIGUEL MEDINA/AFP) (MM42)
Wimbledon, 2002 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE HEWITT)
U.S. Open, 2002 (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BELLO)
Australian Open, 2003
Australian Open, 2005 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEAN GARNSWORTHY)
Wimbledon, 2003 (PHOTOGRAPH BY POPPERFOTO)
Australian Open, 2009
Wimbledon, 2009 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB MARTIN)
Australian Open, 2010 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORSTEN BLACKWOOD/AFP)
Wimbledon, 2010 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STOCKMAN)
Wimbledon, 2012 (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLYN KIRK/AFP)
U.S. Open, 2013 (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AFP)
U.S. Open, 2014 (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AFP)
Australian Open, 2015 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAL FAIRCLOUGH/AFP)
French Open, 2015 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS M. SAAVEDRA)
 Wimbledon, 2015 (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEON NEAL/AFP) (MM43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA
(89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); TENNIS (87%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION
EVENTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); REFEREES & UMPIRES
(73%); TOURNAMENTS (66%)

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Playing Catch-Up in Scramble for the Arctic

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Steven Lee Myers reported from aboard the Alex
Haley; Washington; Kotzebue and Barrow, Alaska; and Moscow and Murmansk, Russia.
Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Colorado Springs; James Hill from
Murmansk; and Nikolay Khalip from Moscow.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2268 words


ABOARD COAST GUARD CUTTER ALEX HALEY, in the Chukchi Sea -- With warming seas
creating new opportunities at the top of the world, nations are scrambling over
the Arctic -- its territorial waters, transit routes and especially its natural
resources -- in a rivalry some already call a new Cold War.

When President Obama travels to Alaska on Monday, becoming the first president
to venture above the Arctic Circle while in office, he hopes to focus attention
on the effects of climate change on the Arctic. Some lawmakers in Congress,
analysts, and even some government officials say the United States is lagging
behind other nations, chief among them Russia, in preparing for the new
environmental, economic and geopolitical realities facing the region.

''We have been for some time clamoring about our nation's lack of capacity to
sustain any meaningful presence in the Arctic,'' said Adm. Paul F. Zukunft, the
Coast Guard's commandant.

Aboard the Alex Haley, the increased activity in the Arctic was obvious in the
deep blue waters of the Chukchi Sea. While the cutter patrolled one day this
month, vessels began to appear one after another on radar as this ship cleared
the western edge of Alaska and cruised north of the Arctic Circle.

There were three tugs hauling giant barges to ExxonMobil's onshore natural gas
project east of Prudhoe Bay. To the east, a flotilla of ships and rigs lingered
at the spot where Royal Dutch Shell began drilling for oil this month. Not far
away, across America's maritime border, convoys of container ships and military
vessels were traversing the route that Russia dreams of turning into a new Suez
Canal.

The cutter, a former Navy salvage vessel built nearly five decades ago, has
amounted to the government's only asset anywhere nearby to respond to an
accident, oil spill or incursion into America's territory or exclusive economic
zone in the Arctic.

To deal with the growing numbers of vessels sluicing north through the Bering
Strait, the Coast Guard has had to divert ships like the Alex Haley from other
core missions, like policing American fisheries and interdicting drugs. The
service's fleet is aging, especially the nation's only two icebreakers. (The
United States Navy rarely operates in the Arctic.) Underwater charting is
paltry, while telecommunications remain sparse above the highest latitudes.
Alaska's far north lacks deepwater port facilities to support increased maritime
activity.

All these shortcomings require investments that political gridlock, budget
constraints and bureaucracy have held up for years.

Russia, by contrast, is building 10 new search-and-rescue stations, strung like
a necklace of pearls at ports along half of the Arctic shoreline. More
provocatively, it has also significantly increased its military presence,
reopening bases abandoned after the collapse of the Soviet Union.

Russia is far from the only rival -- or potential one -- in the Arctic. China,
South Korea and Singapore have increasingly explored the possibility that
commercial cargo could be shipped to European markets across waters -- outside
Russia's control -- that scientists predict could, by 2030, be ice-free for much
of the summer.

In 2012, with great fanfare, China sent a refurbished icebreaker, the Xuelong,
or Snow Dragon, across one such route. Signaling its ambitions to be a ''polar
expedition power,'' China is now building a second icebreaker, giving it an
icebreaking fleet equal to America's. Russia, by far the largest Arctic nation,
has 41 in all.

''The United States really isn't even in this game,'' Admiral Zukunft said at a
conference in Washington this year.

He lamented the lack of urgency in Washington, contrasting it with the
challenges of the Cold War, when the United States and the Soviet Union
confronted each other in the Arctic and beyond. ''When Russia put Sputnik in
outer space, did we sit with our hands in pocket with great fascination and say,
'Good for Mother Russia'?''

Polar Opposites

''The Arctic is one of our planet's last great frontiers,'' Mr. Obama declared
when he introduced a national strategy for the region in May 2013. The strategy
outlined the challenges and opportunities created by diminishing sea ice -- from
the harsh effects on wildlife and native residents to the accessibility of oil,
gas and mineral deposits, estimated by the United States Geological Survey to
include 13 percent of the world's undiscovered oil and 30 percent of its natural
gas.

In January, the president created an Arctic Executive Steering Committee, led by
the director of the White House's Office of Science and Technology, John P.
Holdren. The committee is trying to prioritize the demands for ships, equipment
and personnel at a time of constrained budgets.

Dr. Holdren said in an interview that administration officials were trying ''to
get our arms around matching the resources and the commitment we can bring to
bear with the magnitude of the opportunities and the challenges'' in the Arctic.

What kind of frontier the Arctic will be -- an ecological preserve or an
economic engine, an area of international cooperation or confrontation -- is now
the question at the center of the unfolding geopolitical competition. An
increasing divergence over the answer has deeply divided the United States and
its allies on one side and Russia on the other.

Since returning to the Kremlin for a third term in 2012, President Vladimir V.
Putin has sought to restore Russia's pre-eminence in its northern reaches --
economically and militarily -- with zeal that a new report by the Center for
Strategic and International Studies compared to the Soviet Union's efforts to
establish a ''Red Arctic'' in the 1930s. The report's title echoed the rising
tensions caused by Russia's actions in the Arctic: ''The New Ice Curtain.''

Decades of cooperation in the Arctic Council, which includes Russia, the United
States and six other Arctic states, all but ended with Moscow's annexation of
Crimea in 2014 and the continuing war in eastern Ukraine. In March, Russia
conducted an unannounced military exercise that was one of the largest ever in
the far north. It involved 45,000 troops, as well as dozens of ships and
submarines, including those in its strategic nuclear arsenal, from the Northern
Fleet, based in Murmansk.

The first of two new army brigades -- each expected to grow to more than 3,600
soldiers -- deployed to a military base only 30 miles from the Finnish border.
The other will be deployed on the Yamal Peninsula, where many of Russia's new
investments in energy resources on shore are. Mr. Putin has pursued the buildup
as if a 2013 protest by Greenpeace International at the site of Russia's first
offshore oil platform above the Arctic Circle was the vanguard of a more ominous
invader.

''Oil and gas production facilities, loading terminals and pipelines should be
reliably protected from terrorists and other potential threats,'' Mr. Putin said
when detailing the military buildup last year. ''Nothing can be treated as
trivial here.''

In Washington and other NATO capitals, Russia's military moves are seen as
provocative -- and potentially destabilizing.

In the wake of the conflict in Ukraine, Russia has intensified air patrols
probing NATO's borders, including in the Arctic. In February, Norwegian fighter
jets intercepted six Russian aircraft off Norway's northern tip. Similar Russian
flights occurred last year off Alaska and in the Beaufort Sea, prompting
American and Canadian jets to intercept them. Russia's naval forces have also
increased patrols, venturing farther into Arctic waters. Of particular concern,
officials said, has been Russia's deployment of air defenses in the far north,
including surface-to-air missiles whose main purpose is to counter aerial
incursions that only the United States or NATO members could conceivably carry
out in the Arctic.

''We see the Arctic as a global commons,'' a senior Obama administration
official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss matters of
national security. ''It's not apparent the Russians see it the same way we do.''

Russia has also sought to assert its sovereignty in the Arctic through
diplomacy. This month, Russia resubmitted a claim to the United Nations to a
vast area of the Arctic Ocean -- 463,000 square miles, about the size of South
Africa -- based on the geological extension of its continental shelf.

The commission that reviews claims under the Convention on the Law of the Sea
rejected a similar one filed in 2001, citing insufficient scientific evidence.
But Russia, along with Canada and Denmark (through its administration of
Greenland), have pressed ahead with competing stakes. Russia signaled its
ambitions -- symbolically at least -- as early as 2007 when it sent two
submersibles 14,000 feet down to seabed beneath the North Pole and planted a
titanium Russian flag.

Although the commission might not rule for years, Russia's move underscored the
priority the Kremlin has given to expanding its sovereignty. The United States,
by contrast, has not even ratified the law of the sea treaty, leaving it on the
sidelines of territorial jockeying.

''Nobody cared too much about these sectors,'' said Andrei A. Smirnov, deputy
director for operations at Atomflot, which operates Russia's fleet of six
nuclear-powered icebreakers, ''but when it turned out that 40 percent of
confirmed oil and gas deposits were there, everybody became interested in who
owns what.''

Some have questioned whether Russia, whose economy is sinking under the weight
of sanctions and the falling price of oil, can sustain its efforts in the
Arctic.

''It is rather difficult to find rationale for this very pronounced priority in
the allocation of increasingly scarce resources,'' said Pavel K. Baev of the
Peace Research Institute Oslo. He added that Russian claims that it was
protecting its economic interests from NATO were ''entirely fictitious.''

''The only challenge to Russian exploitation of the Arctic came from
Greenpeace,'' he said.

American commanders are watching warily. The United States and its NATO allies
still have significant military forces -- including missile defenses and plenty
of air power -- in the Arctic, but the Army is considering reducing its two
brigades in Alaska. The Navy, which has no ice-capable warships, acknowledged in
a report last year that it had little experience operating in the Arctic Ocean,
notwithstanding decades of submarine operations during the Cold War. While it
saw little need for new assets immediately, it predicted that could change.

Adm. William E. Gortney, head of the Pentagon's Northern Command and North
American Aerospace Defense Command, said that Russia was increasing its
capabilities after years of neglect but did not represent a meaningful threat,
yet. ''We're seeing activity in the Arctic, but it hasn't manifested in
significant change at this point,'' he said in a recent interview.

Despite concerns over the military buildup, others said that some of Russia's
moves were benign efforts to ensure the safety of ships on its Northern Sea
Route, which could slash the time it takes to ship goods from Asia to Europe.
Russia had pledged to take those steps as an Arctic Council member.

''Some of the things I see them doing -- in terms of building up bases,
telecommunications, search and rescue capabilities -- are things I wish the
United States was doing as well,'' said Robert J. Papp Jr., a retired admiral
and former commandant of the Coast Guard. He is now the State Department's
senior envoy on Arctic issues.

Less Ice, More Traffic

Aboard the Alex Haley, the crew made contact with each of the ships it
encountered plowing the waters, recording details of the owners, courses and the
number of crew members who might need to be plucked from the sea in case of
disaster.

The cutter's captain, Cmdr. Seth J. Denning, was a young ensign when he first
crossed the Arctic Circle just north of the Bering Strait 19 years ago. ''I
never really realized that the Arctic was going to open up as much as it has --
enough to allow this much activity,'' he said. ''I think it surprised many
people.''

What had been a brief excursion for Ensign Denning when the Arctic was choked
with ice has now become routine.

The Alex Haley -- named after the author of ''Roots,'' who was a 20-year Coast
Guard veteran -- is one of five ships that the Coast Guard is deploying to the
Arctic from June to October. It will be replaced by an advanced cutter, the
Waesche, based in Alameda, Calif. The Coast Guard has also stationed two rescue
helicopters at the airport at Deadhorse, the town where the Trans-Alaska
Pipeline begins.

The deployments are part of an annual summer surge that was started in 2012 when
Shell first explored the oil fields off Alaska's North Slope. The challenges of
the new mission have been exacting, given the vast distances and limited support
infrastructure on land. For several days this month the Alex Haley's only
helicopter, which operates from a retractable hangar on the ship's aft was out
of service, awaiting a spare part that had to be flown in on several hops from
North Carolina.

This year's deployments are intended to assess the requirements for operating in
the Arctic, but the expected increase in human activity there will put new
demands on the service.

''As a maritime nation, we have responsibility for the safety and security of
the people who are going to be using that ocean,'' said Mr. Papp. ''And we have
a responsibility to protect the ocean from the people who will be using it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/united-states-russia-arctic-exploration.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russia planted a titanium flag on the Arctic seabed in 2007.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUSSIAN POLAR EXPLORERS, VIA AP) (A1)
A crew member of the Alex Haley, a Coast Guard cutter and the only American
government asset in the area, watched for other ships in the Chukchi Sea, off
Alaska, this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In March, Russia conducted a military exercise in Murmansk that was one of the
largest ever in the far north. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANATOLY ZHDANOV) (A8) MAP: The
Race for Resources: Countries have jurisdiction over natural resources in their
exclusive economic zones, but some nations are scrambling for territory and
transit routes in the Arctic. (Sources: IBRU at Durham University, Center for
Strategic and International Studies) (A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NAVIES (89%); MARINE
VESSELS (89%); MARINE SALVAGE (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES
(78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); OCEANS (78%); NATURAL
RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
(77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); FISHERIES (75%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DRUG INTERDICTION (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); US
NAVY (71%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (71%); NATURAL GAS (70%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS
(70%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); BUDGETS (69%); OIL SPILLS (65%); NATURAL GAS
PRODUCTS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (66%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (66%); RDSA (AMS) (66%); RDS.B (NYSE) (66%); RDS.A (NYSE)
(66%); XOM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE
PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH
CONVENIENCE STORES (66%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); BERING SEA (79%)

COUNTRY: ARCTIC (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Art of the Presidential Exit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR.

Michael D. Shear is a White House correspondent for The New York Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1156 words


Washington -- OVER dry martinis and drawn-out dinners with artists, authors,
tech billionaires and Hollywood moguls, President Obama has begun to contemplate
life after the White House.

And as he mulls his future as the newest member of America's most exclusive
club, history suggests he has a choice to make.

Will he fade quietly into the background like Ronald Reagan and both Presidents
George Bush, ceding the public spotlight and returning, as much as possible, to
a less documented life not commandeered by news cycles, tweets from foreign
leaders and congressional outbursts?

Or will he follow the lead of Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, building a
post-presidential institution that thrusts him back onto the public stage and
helps cement his legacy by further advancing his domestic and foreign policy
agendas?

In modern presidential history, those are the two basic models. And with a
billion-dollar library and global foundation in the works, Mr. Obama appears to
be leaning toward the second approach, hoping to continue confronting the policy
challenges that have marked his years in the Oval Office. ''He's still ambitious
and has a vision for the world,'' said Mark K. Updegrove, the director of the
Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum in Austin, Tex., and the author of
''Second Acts: Presidential Lives and Legacies After the White House.'' ''My
guess is that his post presidency will be more of an activist one.''

But activism has its risks, and being an ex-president is not a shield from
criticism. Mr. Carter stirred controversy by writing a book that was highly
critical of Israel's treatment of Palestinians. And Mr. Clinton's mix of
personal wealth-building and corporate fund-raising for his foundation has drawn
condemnation from some quarters, especially once his wife announced her latest
campaign for the White House.

Mr. Obama's closest aides are determined to help him avoid those pitfalls. They
are urging the president to raise enough money after leaving office for both the
construction of a library and an endowment to finance his post-presidential
activities. They hope that will help him avoid the need for huge corporate and
foreign donations that have drawn unwelcome attention for Mr. Clinton.

At 55, Mr. Obama will leave office as a relatively young man. In the first few
years, he and his wife, Michelle, are likely to write memoirs, his aides say.
But he may eventually wade back into Middle East upheaval or become a global
ambassador as the United States implements historic accords with Iran and Cuba.
He might lead a defense of his health care law or press for more attention to
middle-class economic issues. He has talked about wanting to create educational
and job programs for youth -- especially young black men -- and he is deeply
curious about the impact of technology on governance.

''You are going to see Barack Obama enter a different phase, which is statesman,
bipartisan, international figure,'' said James L. Rutherford, dean of the
Clinton School of Public Service in Little Rock, Ark.

Even so, those close to him say Mr. Obama has pledged not to be a constant thorn
in the side of the next president. He is ''not someone who's going to want to be
in the news every day and showing up for Sunday show interviews,'' said David
Plouffe, the president's campaign manager in 2008 and one of his closest
confidants.

For most of America's history, ex-presidents were content to retire in the true
sense of the word. For older presidents like Dwight D. Eisenhower, Gerald R.
Ford, Ronald Reagan and the elder George Bush, the years after office meant rest
at a farm in Pennsylvania (Eisenhower), time on the golf course (Ford) or
relaxation at a Southern California ranch (Reagan). Mr. Bush created the
''Points of Light'' foundation to support volunteerism, but spent plenty of
family time in Maine and Texas.

At the same time, ex-presidents have long been pressed into temporary service by
their successors. President Harry S. Truman prevailed on Herbert Hoover to
oversee European relief after World War II. President Clinton twice tapped Mr.
Carter to resolve foreign disputes, once in North Korea and again in Haiti.
George W. Bush, as president, asked his father and Mr. Clinton to lead a relief
effort in the wake of the tsunami that devastated Southeast Asia in 2004.

But until the 39th president formed the Carter Center after his single term,
most presidents had been largely content for their libraries to be relatively
static monuments to political careers that had firmly ended.

Mr. Carter, who recently disclosed that he has cancer that has spread to his
brain, changed that, leveraging America's evolving role as the world's sole
superpower and a technology-fueled media environment to bolster his global
relief efforts. ''The United States has risen in the world in the last 50
years,'' Mr. Updegrove said. ''The prestige of being a president is greater
today than it's ever been. They relinquish power but they retain influence.''

Mr. Carter's center, designed as a nongovernmental organization and with a
current annual operating budget of about $113 million, provided a platform for
activism that started close to home with Habitat for Humanity, and eventually
spread as the former president pushed for peace and human rights abroad.

In the 34 years since he left office in 1981, Mr. Carter monitored elections in
Panama; mediated conflicts across Asia; pushed for human rights in Haiti; won
the release of an American held in North Korea; and was awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize in 2002 after continuing to push for peace in the Middle East.

Mr. Clinton's foundation, and a subsidiary, the Clinton Global Initiative,
expanded on Mr. Carter's model, both raising money -- more than $2 billion since
2001 -- and prodding corporate and government activism, even as Mr. Clinton
earned millions in speeches to business interests. The foundation has fought
AIDS in Africa, addressed climate change and promoted improvements in global
health care and disaster relief, among other causes.

''Carter wrote the book on the post-presidency,'' Mr. Rutherford said. ''Clinton
turned it into a set of encyclopedias.''

Even though the second president Bush has remained visibly absent from the
political scene, he created the George W. Bush Institute to focus on issues like
global health and education reform. And Mr. Bush has quietly sought to help
combat cervical cancer in Africa, where he has traveled several times since
leaving office.

So far, Mr. Obama has chosen not address his post-presidential plans directly.
In remarks to young African leaders during a recent event at the White House, he
waved aside questions about his future.

''Since I still have this job for the next 18 months, I haven't been completely
focused on what I'm going to do afterwards,'' he said. ''The first thing I'm
probably going to do is, I'm going to catch up on my sleep.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sunday-review/the-art-of-the-presidential-exit
.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EIKO OJALA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); WEALTHY
PEOPLE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); MEN (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%);
FUNDRAISING (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W
BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL
(79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Google Earth Is His Muse

BYLINE: By PHILIP GEFTER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1401 words


''There's an absurdity to living in an age when everything is photographed,''
Mishka Henner, a Belgian-born artist, said recently from his home in Manchester,
England, emphasizing, in particular, that every square inch of the earth seems
to have been photographed and all of it is accessible online -- including some
of the world's most secret places.

Mr. Henner embraces that very absurdity for his own image-making. He is one of a
growing number of artists making savvy use of the surveillance capabilities of
satellite imaging and Google Street View in work that reflects the way the
Internet age has altered our visual experience. Mr. Henner takes a lofty view of
what he sees as the multifarious activities of man across the planet, swooping
down on the tracks of government or industry -- United States military sites,
say, or feedlots or pump jacks on oil wells. Seen in wall-size photographs,
these mile-wide parcels of earth become specimens of the human imprint on the
global landscape, presented with forensic clarity.

While his subject matter may have resonances of what Cornell Capa considered
''concerned photography'' -- a reference to documentary photographers who use
their cameras to inform and change the world -- Mr. Henner, who is 39,
underscores the way viewers are increasingly conditioned to see the world at a
surveillance camera's remove.

''My work is not just about surveillance,'' he said. ''It's also about
aesthetics, it's about surrealism.'' The projects Mr. Henner pursues, and the
patterns of behavior he identifies, seem consistent with the Dada poet Hugo
Ball's definition of art as ''an opportunity for the true perception and
criticism of the times we live in.''

Take one series that will be shown in ''Semi-Automatic,'' Mr. Henner's first
solo show in New York, which opens on Sept. 10 at the Bruce Silverstein Gallery
in Chelsea. Called ''51 U.S. Military Outposts,'' it catalogs American military
installations throughout the world. Mr. Henner was struck by the perversity of
so-called secure bases being so visibly exposed. He includes the location of
each base by city and country as evidence of its accessibility. (A clothbound
edition of ''51 U.S. Military Outposts'' consists of 51 separate prints.)

Mr. Henner's images and artist's books are made with painstaking aesthetic
resolve and exemplify a challenge faced by museums, galleries and even auction
houses: how to categorize Internet-based art-making? His work is ''at the
crossroads of many different genres or practices,'' said Quentin Bajac, chief
curator of photography at the Museum of Modern Art, who considers it ''part of a
strategy of neo-appropriation that you find in contemporary photography today
with the Internet.'' He added that Google Street View/Google Earth has been a
muse for other artists, too, including Michael Wolf, Doug Rickard, and Jon
Rafman.

The New York Public Library recently obtained an edition of ''51 U.S. Military
Outposts.'' Mr. Henner's work also has been acquired by the Metropolitan Museum
of Art; the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston; the Victoria and Albert Museum in
London; and the Pompidou Center in Paris. Mr. Henner has won an International
Center of Photography Infinity Award for Art (2013), and he will be included in
''Ocean of Images: New Photography 2015'' at MoMA in November, which Mr. Bajac
is organizing.

With the computer screen as his studio, Mr. Henner, using Google Earth,
pinpoints a site on the map, zeros in and adjusts the viewing height according
to the swath of land he wants to include in the image. To obtain optimal
description, he makes hundreds of screen shots and laboriously stitches them
together to make a final image. The photographs appear like drawings on a map,
the meticulous detail taking on cartographic precision.

''It was a playful gesture at first,'' Mr. Henner said of ''51 U.S. Military
Outposts,'' explaining that he had based the idea initially on Ed Ruscha's
''Twentysix Gasoline Stations'' (1963) or his ''Thirtyfour Parking Lots''
(1967), deadpan inventories of suburban banality. Documenting the numbers of
military bases, however, became a typology of American global hegemony.

His use of satellite imaging began when he and his partner, Liz Lock, with whom
he lives, were documenting prostitutes in Manchester in 2010. While researching
locations on the Internet, the artist discovered that some women appeared in the
Street View images, which led him to make Google Earth photographs of them
soliciting along rural highways or freeway exits. This turned into his own
series, ''No Man's Land.'' With an eye in space, Mr. Henner said, he sees things
he would never encounter with a camera on the ground.

''Semi-Automatic'' includes images from ''No Man's Land'' and ''Feedlots,'' his
pictures of cattle farms, including one showing a neatly tiled pattern of lines
(cattle holds) and dots (cows) obstructed by a red oval mass. What seems like an
Expressionist rupture is an acre-size lake composed of cattle waste that
contains nitrates and antibiotics.

In the United States, so-called ''ag-gag,'' or anti-whistleblower laws, prevent
farm operations from being photographed, yet satellite imaging falls outside of
the law's purview. Mr. Henner's pictures have drawn attention to that loophole,
and environmental advocates are taking notice. (Earlier this month, a judge in
Utah ruled the law unconstitutional, writing that the ban on visual evidence
''suppresses a key type of speech.'')

While documenting actual phenomena is not his sole intent, his work continues a
tradition of aerial photography that includes Nadar's balloon images in the 19th
century and William Garnett's airplane views of American states in the 20th
century. Satellite and drone photography now provide new visual input to
decipher. Think of the recent Pluto drive-by as a wave of the future.

''Astronomical,'' perhaps Mr. Henner's most ambitious work, is a 12-volume scale
simulation of the solar system in book form that will be included at MoMA. A
picture of each of the nine planets (he includes Pluto) appears on its own page
as a tiny dot in the vastness of space: Earth does not show up until Page 155 in
the first volume, Jupiter on Page 283 in Volume 2. In between are mostly black
pages, each representing one million kilometers of the six billion kilometers
between the Sun and Pluto. Flipping through all 6,000 pages is a thumb-numbing
exercise that seems to confirm the assertion made by the 19th-century German
philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer: ''Everyone takes the limits of his own field of
vision for the limits of the world.''

Mr. Bajac said MoMA's exhibition ''is about the overwhelming presence of images,
but also the many different forms a photo image can take,'' explaining that
''Astronomical'' fits right in as ''a book made of found images, where you can
follow that iteration from the screen of the laptop back to paper.'' He added
that Mr. Henner's poetry and humor make obvious the limits of the photograph as
a document: ''You do not actually see anything, and yet he proposes another,
more meditative experience.''

Though Mr. Henner uses the applications of the Internet, his work resides in the
real world. ''Less Américains,'' one of his on-demand editioned artist's books,
tweaks Robert Frank's ''The Americans,'' among the most influential photography
books of the 20th century. Here, Frank's pictures are mostly erased, with just
enough fragments remaining to identify the iconic images. This Duchampian
gesture raises another question about photography in the Internet age: With
every inch of the earth seemingly photographed and moments of our lives
endlessly posted on social media, will the photographic canon endure?

''Today the camera is connected to a complex network of software, protocols and
online platforms,'' said Katrina Sluis, curator of digital art at the
Photographers' Gallery in London. ''When computers are taking photographs for
other computers to view and interpret en masse, the role and significance of the
individual image has shifted.'' Artists like Mr. Henner who rely more and more
on the robotic gaze of the Google Street View camera draw our attention to
questions of privacy and surveillance. Ms. Sluis refers to them as ''Web
archaeologists'' navigating an ''increasingly computational culture'' to find
the element of human experience within it.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/design/mishka-henner-uses-google-earth-as
-muse-for-his-aerial-art.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: ''Coronado Feeders, Dalhart, Texas
(2013)'' with cattle waste rendered like an Expressionist painting
''Slaughter, TX (2012)'' from the series ''Eighteen Pumpjacks''
''Centerfire Feedyard, Ulysses, Kansas (2013)''
''379th Air Expeditionary Wing, Al Udeid Air Base, Qatar (2010)''
the artist Mishka Henner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MISHKA HENNER, VIA BRUCE SILVERSTEIN
GALLERY, NEW YORK
 ANDY HASLAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY
(89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%);
AUCTIONS (73%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (73%); FORENSICS (72%); WRITERS (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (74%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(74%)

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Toast to France in a Converted Queens Loft

BYLINE: Interview by PATRICIA R. OLSEN.

Interview conducted and condensed by Patricia R. Olsen.

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; WORKSPACE; Pg.
3

LENGTH: 685 words


Michelle DeFeo is the president of Laurent-Perrier U.S.

1. Hearing the trains

Just over a year ago we moved our company from Sausalito, Calif., to Long Island
City in Queens. We're in the old Standard Motor Products building along with
some other companies. There's a garden on the roof that reminds me of the
Laurent-Perrier grounds in France. The building abuts the Sunnyside rail yards.
I love hearing the passenger trains; it's the sound of motion.

The past and the present

We have a loft-style setting on the fourth floor. The architects kept the
original window casings, radiator and concrete floors. My office is fairly
monochrome -- white desk, chairs and filing cabinets -- but there are a few
bright splashes of color that appear in my peripheral vision. One is the bright
red cover of a biography of Bernard de Nonancourt, the patriarch and visionary
of Laurent-Perrier, on a filing cabinet. He was a fascinating French World War
II hero.

2. Feels like France

We occasionally hold meetings in an elegant area we call the salon, to show our
link to our French headquarters. It has an Aubusson rug and a table, chairs and
sitting area. Sometimes I hold private tastings there, too.

Birth of a francophile

I have a replica Eiffel Tower that I use as a paperweight. When I was around 10,
I saw a TV commercial for a student exchange program with the Eiffel Tower in
the background. That's when the French bug bit me. I probably bought the tower
in 1993 when I was studying in Paris as an undergraduate.

A hint of the chateau

Laurent-Perrier owns Château de Louvois, an estate with elegant gardens designed
by André Le Nôtre, Louis XIV's gardener. It has gorgeous china from Faïencerie
de Gien in the Loire Valley, where I studied as an undergraduate. The painted
pattern has a beautiful garden filled with animals. For my birthday my staff
gave me a plate from the collection, with my favorite animal, a squirrel, on it.

3. Grace under pressure

The Champagne business is lots of fun, but for those non-bubbly times I like to
give my Cao Maru Japanese antistress ball a few squeezes. No matter how much I
squeeze him, he still smiles. I bought it at the Museum of Modern Art gift shop
a long time ago.

4. Les bicyclettes

Three of us live close by and bike to work. We bring our bicycles up in the
elevator and park them in the office under a photo of a French road sign that
signifies you are leaving Tours-sur-Marne, the village where our parent company
is located.

A stash from Sandy

I have three filing cabinets. I'm constantly heading to tastings or dinners,
some of which I may not have planned for, so one is dedicated solely to clothes,
shoes and makeup. Another one holds bottles we kept at a wine storage facility
in Chelsea whose labels were destroyed from the floodwaters of Hurricane Sandy,
making them unsalable. The Champagne itself is fine, and we occasionally enjoy
some after a hard day.

5. Are you a supertaster?

Sometimes people ask me about the science of wine tasting, and I mention
supertasters, people who have a genetic predisposition to become excellent wine
tasters. I keep a pack of phenylthiocarbamide strips in my desk and if people
are interested in knowing if they're a supertaster, I have them chew on a strip
and tell me what they taste. Depending on their answer, I can tell whether they
are or not.

6. Making it stick

I love the funny, sarcastic sticky notes made by a company called Knock Knock. I
have a self-imposed ban on ordering more because at one point I bought too many.
I also use their Pack This notes, which have prevented me from forgetting
critical items more times than I can remember.

Earthly reminders

My great-grandparents and grandfather were miners in a small town in
Pennsylvania, and a piece of coal in my office is among my most prized
possessions. When my great-uncle gave it to me as a child, I was in awe of its
weight, and its black and iridescent character. It's a constant reminder of
where I came from and the commitment to hard work. A piece of white chalk next
to it is from the soil in the Laurent-Perrier vineyards.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/jobs/michelle-defeo-of-laurent-perrier-a-toast
-to-france-in-a-queens-loft.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN R. SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); GARDENING
(77%); COMMUTING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); OFFICE
FURNITURE (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%); WORLD
WAR II (52%)

COMPANY: LAURENT-PERRIER SA (90%); STANDARD MOTOR PRODUCTS INC (58%)

TICKER: LPE (PAR) (90%); SMP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (90%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS
MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS
MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (58%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS,
FRANCE (72%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE
(79%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jasmine Woodard, Evan Rose

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 249 words


Jasmine Briana Woodard, a daughter of Joan Turner Woodard and Jeffrey O. Woodard
of Dublin, Ohio, was married Saturday to Evan Michael Rose, a son of Stephanie
K. Bell-Rose and Christopher Rose of Providence, R.I. The Rev. Thomas H. Feely
performed the ceremony at the Roman Catholic Church of St. Ignatius Loyola in
New York, with the Rev. Dr. Johnnie M. Green, a Baptist minister, taking part.

Mrs. Rose, 28, received a law degree from Columbia in May. In September, she is
to become an associate in the technology and intellectual property transactions
practice at the New York law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges. She graduated from
Harvard.

Her father is the vice president for manufacturing in the Delaware, Ohio,
personal care operation of the Domtar Corporation.

Mr. Rose, 27, who is also a Harvard graduate, is the founder and managing
partner of Rose Digital, a technology consulting firm in New York that develops
web and mobile apps.

His mother is a senior managing director overseeing the research institute at
TIAA-CREF, the pension fund in New York. His father is an engineering professor
and the associate dean for special initiatives at Brown University.

Before the bride and groom arrived at Harvard, an aunt of the groom who was a
friend of the bride's family sent the two each other's AOL contact information.
They chatted online for hours but fell out of touch once classes began. It
wasn't until their senior year that the bride and groom reconnected, this time
on Google Chat.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/jasmine-woodard-evan-rose.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CLERGY &
RELIGIOUS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS
(76%); ENGINEERING (75%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%);
RELIGION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (67%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%); INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY (55%)

COMPANY: DOMTAR CORP (70%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (57%); TEACHERS INSURANCE
& ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: UFS (TSX) (70%); UFS (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (70%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS
(70%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%);
SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Abigail Weiss, Samuel Lipson

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 186 words


Abigail Weiss, a daughter of Martha Himmelfarb and Steven L. Weiss of Princeton,
N.J., is to be married Sunday to Samuel Adam Lipson, a son of Jan A. Lipson and
Kevin J. Lipson of Washington. Rabbi Daniel A. Sklar, a cousin of the groom, is
to officiate at Riverside on the Potomac, in Leesburg, Va.

Ms. Weiss, 26, will keep her name. She teaches kindergarten at H. D. Cooke
Elementary School in Washington. She graduated from Princeton and received a
master's in education from Lesley University in Cambridge, Mass.

Her father is a sculptor and draftsman who retired from teaching at the
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia. Her mother is the William
H. Danforth professor of religion and the director of Judaic studies at
Princeton.

Mr. Lipson, 27, received a law degree from Georgetown in May. Next month, he is
to become an associate in Washington for Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, a
Palo Alto, Calif., law firm. He graduated from Washington University in St.
Louis.

His mother owns Squid Ink Coffee, a cafe in Port Clyde, Me. His father is a
partner in the Washington law firm Hogan Lovell.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/abigail-weiss-samuel-lipson.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS
(78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); LAW
SCHOOLS (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (75%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); CLERGY &
RELIGIOUS (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%)

COMPANY: WILSON SONSINI GOODRICH & ROSATI PC (83%); WILSON SONSINI GOODRICH &
ROSATI (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAINT
LOUIS, MO, USA (51%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); MISSOURI, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; TOP ARTICLES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 169 words


The five most-viewed articles on nytimes.com/sports from Aug. 21 to 27:

1. ONLY MAN WHO CAN TOPPLE USAIN BOLT: A PHOTOGRAPHER ON A SCOOTER Bolt was
uninjured in a collision with a cameraman on a Segway after winning the
200-meter final.

(Published Aug. 27)

2. CURT SCHILLING OFF LITTLE LEAGUE BROADCASTS AFTER 'UNACCEPTABLE' TWEET In a
posting on Twitter, Schilling suggested that Muslim extremists were comparable
to Nazis.

(Aug. 25)

3. UNDER ARMOUR SEEKS TO DO FOR MARYLAND WHAT NIKE DID FOR OREGON The University
of Maryland is trying to emulate Oregon by riding the largess of an apparel
company to athletic prominence.  (Aug. 25)

4. USAIN BOLT HOLDS OFF JUSTIN GATLIN TO WIN WORLD 100-METER TITLE Gatlin lost
his balance in the final strides as Bolt held on for his record ninth gold medal
in world championships.  (Aug. 23)

5. IN BASEBALL, THE TIMES ARE CHANGING Countdown clocks between innings and, in
the minor leagues, in other situations are shortening the average lengths of
games.  (Aug. 23)




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%);
YOUTH SPORTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%)

COMPANY: UNDER ARMOUR INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

TICKER: UA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING
(57%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: USAIN BOLT (93%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Just What Do You Mean by 'Anchor Baby'?

BYLINE: By JOSH BARRO.

Josh Barro is a reporter for The Upshot, a New York Times politics and policy
venture.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; BIRTHRIGHTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 868 words


''Frankly, it's more related to Asian people,'' Jeb Bush said Monday in defense
of his use of the term ''anchor baby.'' It had to have been one of the least
artful clarifications of the 2016 presidential campaign.

The term, when used by Donald Trump, among others, refers to any American child
of an unauthorized immigrant, even an immigrant who has been present in the
country for many years. But Mr. Bush used it to talk about the much narrower
phenomenon of birth tourism: when foreign nationals travel here temporarily to
give birth to children, without any immediate intention of taking up residence.

Both candidates have come under criticism because of the term's dehumanizing
implication of instrumentality, in either sense of its use: that immigrants have
babies to serve as ''anchors'' that ward off deportation and make it easier to
get citizenship for themselves in the future, unlike Americans, who have babies
for all the normal reasons.

''It offends a lot of people,'' Marco Rubio said. ''I don't use the term.''

''They're called babies,'' Hillary Clinton said on Twitter.

The issue reveals some immigration myths. Birthright citizenship isn't unique to
the United States. It's typical for countries in the Western Hemisphere to grant
citizenship to any person born on their soil. Birthright citizenship does,
however, produce families that contain both children who are Americans and
parents who lack authorization to live in the United States. It also creates
policy questions about what to do with those families, even as it allows
politicians to use a term, ''anchor baby,'' that some find offensive.

As Mr. Bush correctly noted, birth tourism is principally associated with Asian
(specifically, Chinese) parents. Earlier this year, officials from the
Department of Homeland Security raided several ''maternity hotels'' in the Los
Angeles area catering to Chinese visitors who wished to bear children in
America. In some cases, these operations have been accused of advising clients
to lie in visa interviews, evading taxes or violating local zoning and building
codes.

Although birth tourism is real, it's not clear that it's a significant social
problem. News media accounts citing ''industry publications'' have put the
number of annual births to birth tourists at 50,000 or 60,000, but the more
reliable Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recorded 9,075 births in the
United States in 2013 to people who do not reside here. By definition, birth
tourists return to their home countries, taking their American citizen children
with them. They do not stay and place a continuing burden on public services.

It's possible their children will return later, and after they turn 21, these
young adults can start sponsoring their relatives for American citizenship. But
while immigration skeptics typically worry about the fiscal burden from
low-skill, low-income immigrants, birth tourism is available only to foreigners
who have a fair amount of money already. A Rolling Stone article in February
profiling a Chinese couple that traveled to Los Angeles to have a child
estimated their expenses at $35,000.

In other words, to the extent birth tourism exists, it's drawing from the upper
echelons of the income spectrum in China, where the average family income in
2012 was $2,100.

On Twitter, Mr. Trump mocked Mr. Bush's clarification about birth tourism as ''a
way to be more politically correct to Hispanics.'' Mr. Trump warned that
''Asians are very offended'' at Mr. Bush's statement. He has instead used Mexico
as an example of a place ''anchor babies'' come from -- and he's using the much
broader definition than Mr. Bush.

Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump's campaign manager, explained his candidate's use
of the term on CNN last Sunday by contending that 400,000 ''anchor babies'' are
born in the United States every year -- about 44 times the C.D.C.'s count of
births to nonresidents. This figure is an estimate of the total number of
children born to unauthorized immigrants, and an out-of-date one at that.
Because the number of unauthorized immigrants in the United States and
birthrates both declined in the Great Recession, the figure is now closer to
300,000, according to the Pew Research Center.

Still, when you add up all the past births, that leaves Mr. Trump talking about
an awful lot of people. According to Pew, in 2012 there were 4.5 million
American children with at least one parent who was an unauthorized immigrant,
and four million unauthorized immigrants living with an American child.

There is one other myth in the debate: A citizen child is not necessarily a
shield against deportation. In the second and third quarters of 2011,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement reported that over 46,000 parents of citizen
children were deported, accounting for 22 percent of all deportations.

Which is to say, in addition to offending some people, the term ''anchor baby''
can be inapt. Even though it's a mouthful, perhaps politicians should talk about
the ''citizen children of unauthorized immigrants.''

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/upshot/just-what-do-you-mean-by-anchor-baby.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Federal agents entering an apartment complex in Irvine, Calif.,
where authorities said a birth tourism business was operating (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE
C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (91%); INFANTS &
TODDLERS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PREGNANCY &
CHILDBIRTH (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%);
ADULTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); DEPORTATION
(71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); TAXES &
TAXATION (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (62%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (61%); TAX FRAUD (60%);
BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (50%)

PERSON: JEB BUSH (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DONALD TRUMP (57%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Sunday

BYLINE: By ALEC M. PRIESTER

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 599 words


11 A.M. (BBC America) THE MATRIX (1999) The Wachowskis wrote and directed this
sci-fi thriller, which won four Oscars. Neo (Keanu Reeves, above), a hacker,
learns from Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) that life is really a
computer-generated fiction called the Matrix, imposed on humans by robotic
overlords who harvest their energy. They must protect the last real human city,
Zion, while battling the machines and the evil Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving).
''With enough visual bravado to sustain a steady element of surprise (even when
the film's most important Oracle turns out to be a grandmotherly type who bakes
cookies and has magnets on her refrigerator), 'The Matrix' makes particular
virtues out of eerily inhuman lighting effects, lightning-fast virtual scene
changes (as when Neo wishes for guns and thousands of them suddenly appear) and
the martial arts stunts that are its single strongest selling point,'' Janet
Maslin wrote in The Times. ''As supervised by Yuen Wo Ping, these airborne
sequences bring Hong Kong action style home to audiences in a mainstream
American adventure with big prospects as a cult classic and with the future very
much in mind.''


9 A.M. (CBS) SUNDAY MORNING WITH CHARLES OSGOOD Former Vice President Dick
Cheney, left, talks about how his worldview and personality changed after the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks; his new book, ''Exceptional''; and his views on the
Obama presidency, the nuclear deal with Iran and ISIS.

9 A.M. (CNN) STATE OF THE UNION WITH JAKE TAPPER The Democratic presidential
hopeful Bernie Sanders discusses the race.

10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Looking back at Hurricane Katrina after 10
years. Guests include Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and the photojournalist
Mario Tama.

7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTES During the Cold War, Jack Barsky spied for the Soviet
Union while working for some of the biggest corporations in the United States.
He speaks with Steve Kroft about his life as an American family man and K.G.B.
agent in a double length segment. Afterward, Lesley Stahl profiles the Chinese
tennis great Li Na.

7 P.M. (Travel Channel) AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL Exploring Oregon, Rush Sturges and
Evan Garcia kayak in the Columbia River Gorge, spelunkers explore Mount Hood's
caves, and Bill Anders visits Crater Lake. At 7:30, cave divers descend into the
Jackson Blue Springs cavern system in Florida, an archaeologist examines a
shipwreck from the Civil War, and a wildfire is used to preserve a swamp
sanctuary in this season finale.

9 P.M. (SPIKE) BAR RESCUE The host Jon Taffer returns to the bars owned by
people he deemed to be the most delusional.

9 P.M. (DIY) ATTIC GOLD This series premiere features the married picker team
Eric and Michelle Myers, who clean out New England attics hoping to find
discarded treasures, while turning the attic into a livable space for the
owners.

9 P.M. (AMC) FEAR THE WALKING DEAD In the face of an impending zombie
apocalypse, Madison (Kim Dickens, left) helps her son, Nick (Frank Dillane), go
through heroin withdrawal. Travis (Cliff Curtis) searches for his son before Los
Angeles is lost.

10 P.M. (Showtime) MASTERS OF SEX Virginia Johnson (Lizzy Caplan) and Dan Logan
(Josh Charles) go away together, while William Masters (Michael Sheen) begins
his surrogacy program.

What's Streaming Now

HOMELAND Claire Danes, below, plays the C.I.A. officer Carrie Mathison on this
Showtime thriller, which Alessandra Stanley called ''well made and gripping'' in
The Times. The first four seasons are available for streaming on Hulu. The fifth
begins in October. (hulu.com) ALEC M. PRIESTER




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/television/whats-on-tv-sunday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASIN BOLAND/WARNER BROS.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); ACADEMY AWARDS (90%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE
(89%); CAVING (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLD
WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ISLAMIC
STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (69%); CANOEING & KAYAKING (68%); PHOTOJOURNALISM
(67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TERRORISM (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (62%);
LAKES (60%); MARTIAL ARTS (53%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%);
TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

PERSON: LI NA (71%); DICK CHENEY (58%); BERNIE SANDERS (50%); BOBBY JINDAL
(50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trending: Hotels Extend Their Welcome Back Home

BYLINE: By LINDSEY TRAMUTA

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 355 words


In the hotel industry, customer relationship management has evolved to keeping
notes on a regular guest's favorite foods or room preference. But now some of
the country's most celebrated properties are reviving an old service for an even
more personalized connection: the house call.

Luigi Taglialegna, a makeup artist and beauty specialist for the Guerlain Spa in
the Towers of the Waldorf Astoria New York, often makes house calls to brides,
celebrities and executives, many of them regular guests at the hotel, before
weddings and other important events. Often his consultation turns into a lesson
in skin care. A makeup application costs $300 plus transportation and gratuity.

''My clients become more open in their own surroundings, and I can better
connect with them in order to customize the service to their needs,'' Mr.
Taglialegna said.

The Peninsula Beverly Hills in California often caters at-home dinners for
frequent guests during the holidays. It also sends its spa therapists to guests'
homes for treatments like the property's signature massage: a combination of
Swedish, deep tissue and sport massages. The therapists will travel within a
five-mile radius of the hotel for a starting cost of $420, including tax,
gratuity and travel.

For guests of Nantucket Island Resorts, shipments of Nantucket Bay scallops can
be arranged. Each of the resort's properties works closely with local vendors
throughout the harvesting season (November to March) to provide fresh scallops
shipped the same day, for an average cost of $25 per pound plus shipping fees.

At Rosewood's CordeValle property in San Martin, Calif., Benjy Robins, the
tennis director, routinely develops drills for guests to practice once they
return home. And now he is taking an extra step. Recently he began making house
calls to loyal hotel guests who live within a three-hour drive of the resort.
His visits are $110 an hour, the price of a private lesson at the resort. He
also runs clinics at guests' local tennis clubs.

''These house calls have become a great way for us to further build lasting
relationships with our guests,'' Mr. Robins said.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/hotels-house-call.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Loved the scallops in Nantucket? One resort sends them to guests
who ask.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); MASSAGE SERVICES (90%); RESORTS (90%); LODGING
(90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (78%);
PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (78%); CUSTOMER RELATIONS (78%); COSMETICS (78%);
WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%);
TENNIS (63%); SPORTS (63%)

COMPANY: GUERLAIN SPA (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2844 PERFUMES,
COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (72%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Hikers Celebrate, Some Ask: Where Will It End?

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1701 words


MOUNT KATAHDIN, Me. --  The storied Appalachian Trail, which begins 2,190 miles
away in Georgia, ends here, with a final scramble up Maine's highest peak --
some of it nearly vertical, much of it blocked by boulders. For those who have
trekked five or six months, Katahdin's iconic summit is an exhausting challenge
with a rewarding end.

''It takes your breath away,'' said Chuck Wood, 64, a hiker from Norristown, Pa.
''Just to be there, it's like an audience with the Lord.''

But that experience is now in jeopardy. Faced with increasing crowds and
partylike behavior by a few -- including an ultramarathon runner who celebrated
at the summit last month with a spray of champagne -- officials here are
threatening to reroute the end of the trail off Katahdin and out of Baxter State
Park.

The very idea has stunned the hiking world. Katahdin has been the trail's
northern terminus for more than 80 years. For the thousands who set out annually
to follow its entire path, moving the trail's endpoint off this rocky peak would
be a momentous detour, forcing long-distance hikers to end their treks not with
a bang but a whimper.

''It would lose all its epicness,'' lamented Ryan Mennett, 22, a trail hiker
from Burlington, Conn. ''Where would they end it? At a stream? On a piece of
grass?''

The matter is coming to a head in part because the marathoner, Scott Jurek,
broke a handful of strict park rules.

But more urgently, the Appalachian Trail is bracing for a surge in hikers after
the release in September of a movie about the trail, ''A Walk in the Woods,''
with Robert Redford.

In 1999, a year after the book that the film is based on was published, the
number of long-distance hikers on the Appalachian Trail, or A.T., increased by
45 percent, said Ronald J. Tipton, the executive director of the Appalachian
Trail Conservancy, which manages the trail in partnership with the National Park
Service and more than 70 local agencies. Just as last year's movie ''Wild,''
with Reese Witherspoon, heightened interest in the Pacific Crest Trail on the
West Coast, ''A Walk in the Woods'' is expected to prod more couch potatoes onto
the Appalachian Trail.

That concern about crowds, though, has also highlighted a deeper conflict
between Baxter State Park, which wants to limit the number of hikers, and the
Appalachian Trail Conservancy, which wants to encourage the trail's use.

Officials at Baxter have been sounding the alarm about crowds for years. Last
year, 62,000 people entered the park, and a record 2,017 of them were hiking the
trail. That was a jump of 18 percent over 2013.

Jensen Bissell, Baxter's director, said the park already curbed the number of
day hikers by limiting cars in the parking lots; now he wants to cap the number
of long-distance hikers too, perhaps by requiring permits. He said his goal was
to ''make sure that the 2,000 people we have today won't become 3,000 next year
or 8,000 in 10 years.''

Protecting the park is his job, he said. Baxter, which hosts the trail's
northernmost 15 miles, is managed by an independent trust that has pledged to
carry out the vision of Percival P. Baxter, a former Maine governor, who bought
up 210,000 acres and deeded them to the state to create a nature preserve to be
kept in a ''natural, wild state.''

The conservancy, which is promoting the Redford movie on its website, counters
that the trail can still handle more people. ''We believe the A.T. can
accommodate more people if they can be educated to use the trail responsibly,''
said Laurie Potteiger, a spokeswoman for the conservancy.

Baxter already has some of the strictest rules along the entire trail. They bar
hiking in groups larger than 12, drinking alcohol in public, littering, camping
off the trail and generally whooping it up in a party atmosphere on the
mountaintop.

Mr. Bissell wrote an open letter in November to the conservancy noting that
these rules were being violated with greater frequency and warning that if such
activity continued, Baxter would no longer host the trail. He said that while
Appalachian Trail hikers accounted for 3 percent of the park's visitors, they
used up more resources and had a disproportionate effect on the land.

His concerns received little notice outside the hiker world until July 12, when
Mr. Jurek, 41, a champion ultramarathon runner, arrived atop Katahdin from
Georgia after breaking the speed record for a supported hike. (His wife, Jenny,
met him each night, allowing him to avoid carrying a heavy pack and to sleep in
a van.) He ran the entire trail in 46 days, eight hours and seven minutes,
beating the previous record by more than three hours.

At the summit, with an elevation of 5,269 feet, a friend handed Mr. Jurek a
bottle of champagne. He uncorked it, inserted his thumb and shook the bottle
vigorously until it exploded like Old Faithful. He then took a long swig before
sitting on the rocks and talking with journalists and other hikers about his
accomplishment. Among those watching was a park ranger, and Mr. Jurek later
received three citations, for having a group larger than 12 (the citation said
16), drinking alcohol in public and littering -- the result of that champagne
spilling on the rocks, which the ranger said attracted bees and made the summit
''smell like a redemption center.''

Mr. Jurek's behavior incensed Mr. Bissell, 61, who has been the park director
for more than a decade.  He took the unusual step of scolding the runner in a
post on the park's Facebook page. He noted the rule violations but trained his
ire on what he said was Mr. Jurek's commercialization of the wilderness -- the
runner's headband and support van showed corporate logos. Mr. Bissell said Mr.
Jurek and his sponsors had exploited the park for profit. And he reiterated the
threat to move the trail off Katahdin.

''When I saw the video, it spoke to me,'' Mr. Bissell said later in an interview
in his office in nearby Millinocket. ''I thought, it's time to speak more loudly
about this because we're not having an effect.''

The post drew a crush of online comments. While some lauded Mr. Bissell's
stance, the majority found it churlish and unprofessional. Readers were dismayed
that he had singled out Mr. Jurek when so many others routinely celebrate with
alcohol and are not given tickets. They said Mr. Bissell had missed an
opportunity to turn Mr. Jurek's staggering physical accomplishment -- the
equivalent of running nearly two marathons a day -- into a positive for the
park.

Shortly afterward, Mr. Jurek struck back with his own blog post, casting himself
as a wilderness advocate and saying he hoped he had inspired others to test
their limits.

Word of the exchange traveled up and down the trail. Many hikers on Katahdin
earlier this month said the park had overreacted, at least with the littering
charge. But many also said Mr. Jurek had violated the rules and missed the true
Appalachian Trail experience. As Paul Nuckols, 59, of Springfield, Mass., put it
as he descended the summit: ''Doing this in 46 days is like going through the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in one minute and 17 seconds.''

Meanwhile, Mr. Jurek has hired a lawyer, Walter McKee of Augusta, and is
fighting the citations, which each carry a $200 fine. A judge has given Mr.
McKee and the prosecutor, R. Christopher Almy, the district attorney of
Penobscot County, until Sept. 9 to resolve the matter; otherwise, it could go to
trial.

''I'm a man of integrity,'' Mr. Jurek said in a telephone interview from his
home in Boulder, Colo., when asked why he was contesting the charges.

Though pictures from the summit show him drinking alcohol, he said that his
friend who had brought it had told rangers about it in advance and that the
rangers had said only to avoid drinking in front of children.

Mr. Jurek said he found the charge of littering particularly galling. He is a
strict practitioner of packing out what he packs in and leaving no trace, and he
said he had taken 4,000 energy-bar wrappers out from the trail as well as his
own used toilet paper and sorted it all for recycling. He also removed the empty
champagne bottle and cork and left the summit as clean as he had found it, he
said.

As to the charge of having a group of more than 12, his lawyer said others had
tagged along with Mr. Jurek's dozen, which was their choice, not Mr. Jurek's.

Mr. Jurek said he was being made a scapegoat because he was a public figure with
a following. ''He wanted to tarnish me to further his cause about moving the
A.T.,'' he said of Mr. Bissell. ''He stood on my shoulders.''

Indeed, while many hikers are reverential at the top of Katahdin, some are
boisterous. Many drink. Some smoke marijuana. A few get naked. And yet citations
are extremely rare. In 2013, the last year for which figures were available,
eight people in one group were cited for public drinking; all pleaded guilty and
paid their fines.

Mr. Bissell said the ranger at the scene had not issued citations to anyone
besides Mr. Jurek because all the others had been there because of him.

Mr. Almy, the district attorney, said he was prosecuting Mr. Jurek's case
because ''the park is a sacred place and he was disrespectful.''

The dispute, and the pending surge in hikers due to the movie, prompted
officials from Baxter and the conservancy, as well as other stakeholders in the
trail, to meet last month for the first time to try to iron out their
differences and avoid having the trail moved off Katahdin.

They plan to meet again in October. Mr. Tipton of the conservancy said his
organization was already developing strategies for hikers to educate themselves
about the varying rules in each jurisdiction and how to avoid trail congestion.

Mr. Bissell said he thought moving the trail was ''unlikely,'' but he remained
adamant that Mr. Jurek had set a bad example. He said his mission was to stay
true to Governor Baxter, who wrote in 1945 that he wanted to protect the park
against ''commercial exploitation'' -- along with other vices of modern life,
including ''the trappings of unpleasant civilization.''

''It's hard,'' Mr. Bissell said, ''when 200 people are there at the summit, to
say this is a wilderness experience.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/us/as-hikers-celebrate-on-appalachian-trail-so
me-ask-where-will-it-end.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A hiker scrambled over boulders this month on Mount Katahdin in
Maine, the final stretch of the Appalachian Trail. The state park that controls
the area wants to limit the number of visitors.
Buzz Sztukowski of Chapel Hill, N.C., rested after reaching the summit of Mount
Katahdin and finishing a 2,190-mile hike that began in Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
TRISTAN SPINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
Left, Scott Jurek celebrating atop Mount Katahdin on July 12 after completing
the Appalachian Trail in a record time of in 46 days, eight hours and seven
minutes. Right, a climber on the peak. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB NAJAR/IRUNFAR
 TRISTAN SPINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIKING (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); STATE PARKS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%);
MARATHONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

PERSON: ROBERT REDFORD (79%); REESE WITHERSPOON (50%)

STATE: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); MAINE, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NORTH
CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After American Hits New High, Countrymen Experience a Familiar Low

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1250 words


BEIJING --  With his own decathlon world record in reach but with 1,500 meters
still to run, Ashton Eaton did anything but stay in the moment.

As he made his final push at the track and field world championships, Eaton
thought about his coach, Harry Marra, and flashed back to the sacrifices Marra
had made to nurture Eaton's talent and career.

''It's really easy to let yourself down, but when I'm coming down that last 300
meters, I'm thinking about all the time he spends away from his wife, all the
time we spend away from our families,'' Eaton said of Marra. ''There are so many
little things that are affected, that accumulate, that it just makes you
realize: It's not for you. It's for somebody else: the kid sitting on the couch
watching, like I was when I was little.''

Anyone tuning in for Eaton's final lap got to see a young man in pain. Eaton
willed himself on, jerking his head from side to side and consciously pumping
his arms with each stride, and he made it across the line in 4 minutes 17.52
seconds before collapsing to the red track.

Moments later, the announcer in the Bird's Nest Stadium shared the essential
facts: Eaton had not only won another gold; he had amassed 9,045 total points,
beating his previous world record of 9,039 points, set at the 2012 United States
Olympic trials in his home city, Eugene, Ore.

The next challenge was finding the energy to talk about the accomplishment.

''I'm feeling bad, but it's the good kind of bad,'' Eaton said half an hour
later. ''Whenever you defeat yourself, it's always good.''

Eaton was referring to beating his own record, the first world record to fall in
these championships, which allowed him the rare treat of upstaging Usain Bolt in
the Bird's Nest. But other Americans engaged in self-defeating behavior that was
not nearly as productive on Saturday, the penultimate night of this nine-day
meet.

It has been an odd and often deflating championships for the Americans -- with
Molly Huddle's premature celebration, which cost her a medal in the 10,000
meters; Jenny Simpson's lost shoe in the 1,500; and Dawn Harper-Nelson's tumble
in the semifinals of the 100 hurdles.

But there was nothing new about the latest disappointment: a botched handoff on
Saturday night by the American men in the 4x100-meter relay. It came on the
final baton exchange, between Tyson Gay and Mike Rodgers, and it ended up not
only costing the team a shot at the gold medal (won by Jamaica and Bolt) but
also getting the Americans disqualified because the pass, when it finally
happened, took place well outside the exchange zone.

''We just had a mishap,'' Gay said, although Rodgers, who appeared to start
running too soon, later took the blame.

It was hardly the first American relay mishap in recent years, or even the first
in this stadium. In the 2008 Olympics, both the men's and women's 4x100 teams
from the United States dropped the baton and failed to reach the final.

Those gaffes -- the latest in a litany -- prompted a comprehensive internal
review of the relay program by U.S.A. Track & Field and led to a more polished
performance at the London Olympics in 2012 (although the American men's silver
medal in the 4x100 there was later stripped because of a doping violation by
Gay).

The demons resurfaced on Saturday night, even if the crowd hardly seemed to
mind. The Chinese fans had already been celebrating China's first world
championship medal in a relay, a bronze. After the United States'
disqualification, they got to celebrate a Chinese silver, with Canada getting
upgraded to the bronze.

''Thanks to the crowd support, we were able to make history,'' said Zhang
Peimeng, who ran the anchor leg for China.

The team's nearly flawless exchanges did not hurt, either.

''You could tell watching them in the warm-up that they had one of the smoothest
baton changes I've ever seen,'' Bolt said.

Perhaps the Americans took video.

''I think we did have a good shot tonight,'' said Justin Gatlin, who ran the
second leg for the United States. ''It's bittersweet we are not there. But I
want to go back to the drawing board with my teammates and have a powwow, and
we're going to get ready for next year in Rio.''

Gatlin and the Americans have had quite a few powwows already this season, and
they beat Bolt and the Jamaicans this year in the World Relays meet.

But Bolt and the Jamaicans, as usual, won the relay that mattered most this
season, and it gave Bolt another clean sweep of the gold medals at a major
championship.

He has now won gold in the 100, the 200 and the 4x100 relay in the 2008 and 2012
Olympics and the 2009, 2013 and 2015 world championships.

''It is called pressure,'' he said of the Americans' mistake. ''They won the
World Relays, and the pressure was on them.''

The American women's 4x100 team raced without the 100-meter bronze medalist,
Tori Bowie, who had not been included in the squad after she skipped relay
training camps this year. The Americans did complete their lap without
misadventure on Saturday night but still finished second to the powerhouse
Jamaican team of Veronica Campbell-Brown, Natasha Morrison, Elaine Thompson and
the closest thing women's sprinting has to Bolt, Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce.

Jamaica won in a world championship record of 41.07 seconds, with the United
States in second in 41.68 and Trinidad and Tobago in third in 42.03.

Calling the 4x100 ''a race where anything can happen,'' English Gardner, the
first runner for the United States women, said: ''You can get the baton around
like the women did, or you can end up doing what the men did. At the end of the
day, I feel they gave it their all, and it was a small mistake that cost them a
medal and cost them a race. My heart goes out to them. They worked very hard
this year and did everything they could to perform at the best of their
ability.''

Earlier on Saturday, Mo Farah of Britain completed another distance double,
snuffing out the latest Kenyan threat with a final surge to win the 5,000 meters
in 13:50.38, with Caleb Ndiku of Kenya second in 13:51.75. Farah has now swept
the 5,000 and the 10,000 at the 2012 Olympics and the last two world
championships.

Eaton, 27, has won the decathlon at the 2012 Olympics and the last two world
championships. He took a break from the grueling event last year and focused
only on the 400 hurdles. This was his first full decathlon since he won the
world title in Moscow in 2013.

''I got here and realized what I didn't have last year, and I missed it,'' he
said.

As in Moscow, he took the gold after his wife, the Canadian Brianne Theisen
Eaton, took silver in the heptathlon.

The speed events remain his core strength, and his time of 45.00 seconds in the
400 on Friday was the best recorded by a decathlete in history. It caught him by
surprise, and it ended up providing the thin cushion he needed to beat his world
record by 6 points.

A fine javelin throw by his standards (63.63 meters) in the penultimate event
was also critical. But Eaton still needed to run 4:18.25 or better in the 1,500
to secure the record. He managed it with less than a second to spare.

''That's a gutsy performance right there,'' said Marra, who has been coaching
decathletes since the 1970s. ''When he crossed the line in Eugene after setting
the world record, he wasn't spent like this. But as soon as the crowd started
doing the wave, I knew. Ashton is a guy who always gives back. He does the sport
more for other people than he does for himself.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/usain-bolt-wins-again-in-relay-bad-hand
off-disqualifies-us-world-championships.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Usain Bolt of Jamaica (4) heading toward a win in the 4x100
after a botched handoff between Mike Rodgers (6) and Tyson Gay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
WANG ZHAO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); RUNNING (89%);
OLYMPICS (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%)

PERSON: USAIN BOLT (92%)

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (68%)

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Old Player to Young Manager, Rising Fast in the Premier League

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1168 words


SWANSEA, Wales --  In a quiet moment during the Premier League's annual
preseason meeting of head coaches a few weeks ago, Louis van Gaal of Manchester
United shook hands with Garry Monk of Swansea City.

''You always beat me,'' van Gaal, the veteran Dutch manager, said as Monk
smiled. At 36, Monk is the second-youngest manager in the Premier League (and
the least experienced as a full-time coach), yet last season he became just the
third manager in league history to beat Arsenal and Manchester United home and
away in the same season.

''You always beat me,'' van Gaal said again before adding: ''I voted for you for
Manager of the Season, you know. You didn't win that one. But maybe you should
have.''

Recalling the exchange on Friday afternoon in his office here -- two days before
another match against van Gaal and Manchester United -- Monk grinned. ''Of all
the things that have happened in this job,'' he said, ''that was pretty
special.''

Monk conceded that he wouldn't have minded the award, too, of course (though he
couldn't quibble with Chelsea's José Mourinho winning), but the sequence was
representative of how Monk's overall perspective on soccer has changed since he
went from being an old, grizzled player to being the new, interim manager at
Swansea late in the 2013-14 season.

The results were there from the beginning -- Monk started auspiciously, beating
the bitter rivals Cardiff City by 3-0 in his first game on the bench -- but the
smaller moments, like the exchange with van Gaal, are what have truly resonated.

Sometimes it is a particularly good meeting with a player. Or a halftime talk
that comes out of his mouth just as he imagined it in his head. Or a lunch at
the training ground when he hears camaraderie and chemistry and chatter above
the chewing. Monk the manager -- as opposed to Monk the wily, hard-nosed
defender -- is a self-admitted perfectionist, so to stay sane, he revels in the
slivers of precision he can find amid the typical tumult of professional sports.

Earlier Friday, during his weekly meetings with the news media, he was asked
several times if he felt any personal pride from having beaten fabled coaches
like van Gaal and Arsène Wenger over four matches last season.

Monk casually deflected the questions each time but then, later, explained that
his deepest moment of satisfaction from those games came early during the home
match against Manchester United. During the week leading to that game, Monk had
made an unusual tactical change, switching from the team's standard formation to
a diamond-shaped setup in midfield. Despite having just a few days to practice
it, the Swansea players did exactly what they were supposed to do.

''It was like, 'Yes, yes! That's how we saw it happening,' '' Monk recalled.
''That's it for a manager, isn't it? If it hadn't worked, it would have been,
'He's young, he's naïve, he doesn't know.' But I felt it was the right decision
for that game, and so I made it.''

That decisiveness -- and the fact that many of his decisions have turned out
well -- quickly catapulted Monk into the upper tier of managers. As a player for
Swansea from 2004 to 2014, Monk helped the club rise from the dregs of the
fourth tier to -- in 2011 -- the glamour of the Premier League. As manager, he
has continued the climb. Last season, Swansea finished eighth in the league, the
second-highest top-division finish in the club's 103-year history.

Monk quickly points out that Swansea is still an underdog against teams like
Manchester United or Chelsea, if only because those clubs have large payrolls.
But smart, measured spending has become part of Swansea's savvy image, too.
Monk's moves in the transfer market (including this summer's targeting of the
dynamic scorer André Ayew from Marseille) have been almost universally shrewd.

''I always thought that I'd be doing this someday,'' he said. ''I had a bad knee
injury when I was 26, and from then on I started paying attention to training
sessions, to how a manager talked to a player, to how he ran the team. I was
lucky to have managers like Brendan Rodgers. I even took notes about what I saw.
So I always imagined doing this. I just didn't think it would be this soon.''

Alan Curtis, a longtime fixture in Swansea as a player and a coach, chuckled
when he recalled Monk's first few days as interim manager after Michael
Laudrup's firing in February 2014. Leery of coming off suddenly inflated to his
players (who had been, until a few days earlier, his teammates), Monk did not
wear a suit on the sideline while coaching and still encouraged the players to
call him ''Monks'' or ''Garrs,'' just as they had done before.

''You could see, though,'' Curtis said. ''He was trying not to shake things up
right at the start, but you could see he knew just how he wanted to do things.
He took to it. He was a captain for a long time, and that helped him know how to
be a manager.''

Now, everyone calls Monk ''Boss'' or ''Gaffer'' (British slang for manager), and
he has given up trying to fit in around the players' dressing room. He does wear
suits on match days and he seeks to constantly ingrain what he calls his ''game
model'' on the club -- a set of ideals, as he describes it, for how the team
should be tactically, technically, physically and emotionally.

No detail is too small. Monk has toyed with tactics and training routines, but
also the layout of the tables in the cafeteria (he wanted them in a rectangle so
the players would face one another). During preseason, he brought in large,
fully furnished sleeping tents for the players to rest in on breaks between
sessions. In his team speeches at halftime, regardless of the game, he makes
exactly three points about offense and exactly three points about defense.

Monk even makes sure to explain his philosophies in depth to the team's support
staff, so that everyone in the building is on the same page.

''We have a no-excuse culture,'' he said. ''So if a player is complaining about
something while he's getting a sports massage, I don't even want the masseuse to
encourage it.''

Someday, Monk may well have the chance to test his theories on a bigger stage.
Already there has been talk among British pundits that he could be a future
coach of England's national team, and Monk does not hide his affection for the
possibility. It would be ''the pinnacle,'' he said, and he did not hesitate to
offer a treatise on how, in his opinion, age-restricted leagues are actually
hurting England's player development instead of helping it.

Such a lofty post, though, is surely at least a little ways off. For the moment,
Monk is quite content here in South Wales, where he will try to pull off another
victory over van Gaal on Sunday.

''He's made the club more resilient,'' said Curtis, who now works as one of
Monk's assistants. ''There's a belief, a core understanding among the players
now that wasn't always there. And that sort of thing can only come from a
manager who knows exactly what he wants.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/from-old-player-to-young-manager-swanse
a-citys-garry-monk-rises-in-premier-league.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fans celebrating a Swansea City goal against Chelsea this
month. Under Manager Garry Monk last season, Swansea finished eighth in the
Premier League, its second-best top-division finish ever. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN
SIBLEY/REUTERS)
 Monk, a former Swansea player who took over late in the 2013- 14 season, is the
second-youngest manager in the league. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN SMITH/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%);
COACHES & TRAINERS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (90%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (90%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
CLUBS & PROMOTERS (90%)

CITY: SWANSEA, WALES (95%); CARDIFF, WALES (79%)

COUNTRY: WALES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Peace Plea for South Sudan

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 495 words


It would be satisfying to celebrate the peace deal signed in South Sudan as an
end to the warfare that has been the lot of the land's 12 million people for
most of the past 60 years, including the extraordinarily cruel civil conflict
that has ravaged the country since independence in July 2011. But at least eight
cease-fires have collapsed since civil war erupted in December 2013, some within
hours of being signed, and both sides have already accused each other of
continuing attacks. Only continued pressure by the United Nations and the United
States on the South Sudanese leaders will give the peace any chance.

This is not a problem that the United States can sidestep. Uniquely among
African nations, South Sudan owes its existence largely to Washington, starting
with the George W. Bush administration. But it did not take long after
independence for South Sudan's president, Salva Kiir, to go to war against his
vice president, Riek Machar, dragging their different ethnic groups and their
foreign supporters into a vicious struggle that has inflicted rape, the
slaughter of children and other terrible crimes on civilians, forcing more than
2.2 million people from their homes.

On his trip to East Africa in late July, President Obama gathered leaders of
South Sudan's neighbors for a meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, at which they
agreed to threaten the warring leaders with international sanctions if they did
not agree to a peace agreement by Aug. 17. Mr. Machar signed on the day of the
deadline; Mr. Kiir came around only on Wednesday, citing strong reservations,
after the United Nations threatened ''immediate action.''

The agreement calls for a power-sharing government, with Mr. Machar again as
first vice president, for 30 months, with an elected government to follow; an
immediate cease-fire; the departure of all foreign forces; and the creation of a
truth and reconciliation commission to investigate human rights abuses.

That amounts largely to an attempt to get back to where South Sudan was before
the fighting. But it does not resolve the basic problems that have undermined
all previous cease-fires. There is the hostility between Mr. Kiir and Mr.
Machar, and between their Dinka and Nuer ethnic groups, the two largest in the
country. There is also the long history of warfare, before and since
independence, that has rendered South Sudan a militarized society.

Though aware of the weaknesses of the deal, the Obama administration has said
that it would ''hold to account,'' and support sanctions against, any leader who
breached the agreement. This is the right approach, and Washington must not
waver. The administration must be equally stern with South Sudan's neighbors,
some of which have taken sides in the strife. It is incumbent on those who gave
South Sudan independence to now see it through to a lasting peace.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/a-peace-plea-for-south-sudan.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%);
WAR & CONFLICT (89%); AGREEMENTS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%);
TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS
(75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS
(74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%);
ETHNICITY (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%)

COUNTRY: SUDAN (99%); SOUTH SUDAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%);
ETHIOPIA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Courting With a Comic Flair

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1255 words


Four and a half years ago, Leslye Headland went on a blind date of the working
variety with Jason Sudeikis, a man she knew only as ''that goofy guy from
'Saturday Night Live.' ''

Each had been toiling on a project that would unleash a foulmouthed assault on
gender politics: He as a star of ''Horrible Bosses,'' about three harassed
workers plotting to murder their employers. She as the writer and director of
''Bachelorette,'' about an alpha girl who snaps when a high school bestie -- the
one she christened Pigface -- beats her to the altar.

Three hours later, ''I was like, 'Who is this guy?' '' Ms. Headland recalled.
''I'd never met somebody with such old-school Hollywood charisma. I felt like I
was the only person he had ever talked to. And it was such a stimulating
conversation, about everything from art to life.''

Inflamed by artistic passion, she composed a romantic comedy for him.

''I was incredibly flattered to be viewed that way,'' Mr. Sudeikis said. ''And I
was really moved by the story. I thought it was a great take on a genre that's
been both celebrated and beloved but also trashed and commodified. And on an
archetype: the idea of whether, as the old song goes, lovers can be friends or
vice versa.''

''Sleeping With Other People,'' opening Sept. 11, propels Mr. Sudeikis into
heartthrob territory after a career in which, wielding a smirk and a smart
retort in films like ''Hall Pass'' and ''We're the Millers,'' he'd become
pigeonholed as what A. O. Scott of The New York Times called ''a genial,
excitable doofus who also happens to be catnip for the ladies.''

Ms. Headland padded that caricature with the most potent qualities of Mr.
Sudeikis's off-screen self -- courtliness, a seductive intelligence -- while
mining her own romantic travails to write the role of Jake, a Columbia student
who loses his virginity late (still the doofus), only to morph into a womanizer
(meow, ladies). Flash to the present, where Jake and Lainey -- his partner in
deflowering, now a serial cheater, played by Alison Brie -- encounter each other
at a 12-step meeting for sex addicts and go on a sort-of date. Fearing a
back-slide into old habits, they spend the rest of the film trying to subvert
their lust. It's unabashedly romantic and deliriously raunchy, a bonbon for a
hookup generation longing for deeper intimacy but searching for it in the wrong
places.

''In a film that was meant to dig very deep into what was wrong with the rom-com
genre and update it, you needed a Jack Lemmon you wanted to'' have sex with, Ms.
Headland said, using saltier language. ''It couldn't just be Billy Crystal or
Bill Pullman or someone who felt safe. You needed a dangerous guy who was also
super, super lovely.''

''Jason,'' she added, ''is always going to have that glint in his eye no matter
what you have him doing.''

There certainly is something about Mr. Sudeikis. Earlier this month, he arrived
at The New York Times building practically incognito, a full beard and baseball
cap shielding his face, a Leica M3 camera slung across his shoulder.

He took his time settling into the conversation, the distance narrowing as he
revealed himself: an affection for Kansas, where he grew up in Overland Park, a
suburb of Kansas City, Mo. An adolescence fueled by sports until he stumbled
into a forensics class at Shawnee Mission West High School taught by Sally
Shipley, who had also coached Paul Rudd. A basketball scholarship to a community
college and the eventual realization that he loved improv more. A 1997 move to
Chicago with a singular goal, to attend the Second City conservatory, which he
did before joining its Las Vegas company and performing sketches by Steve Carell
and Tina Fey until the producers gave him permission to write his own.

''One of the most flattering things is that some of those scenes are now toured.
You talk about romantic, I'm romantic about that,'' he said, using an expletive
to punctuate the thrill he felt.

Then, in 2003, came ''S.N.L.'' -- a show he'd initially resisted trying out for,
because he felt his artistic inclinations hewed toward the Blue Man Group (he
auditioned but wasn't chosen), and ''because I had a philosophy that it made
people unfunny,'' he said. ''I'd seen people at their absolute bona fide
brilliant on a Chicago stage and then to see them on 'S.N.L.,' it's almost like
they lost their court savvy. It's like seeing the best basketball player in your
hometown play at a Division I school and not get to touch the ball as much so
when they do, they're a little tight.''

At the urging of an agent who also represented Mr. Sudeikis's uncle George Wendt
(Norm of ''Cheers''), he sent a tape to ''S.N.L.'' After being summoned to New
York for an audition, the big league finally came calling, and he answered.

Mr. Sudeikis was hired as a writer -- like winning a gold in the triple jump
when you consider yourself a long jumper, he said -- and battled to have his
sketches on the air, while aching for a chance to perform. Then, in his third
season, there he was, making a name for himself in memorable skits with Kristen
Wiig and, later, parodying ''ESPN Classic'' announcers with Will Forte.
(Recalling a bit inspired by ''Cool Hand Luke'' in which he tries to avoid
eating 50 eggs, Mr. Sudeikis conjured a Foghorn J. Leghorn voice.)

Mr. Forte said he and Mr. Sudeikis were a contrast in styles. ''I'm a real
overthinker, and he blazes in and has these amazing ideas, but for some reason
we meshed well together,'' said Mr. Forte, whose Fox series, ''The Last Man on
Earth,'' features a recurring guest turn by Mr. Sudeikis. ''He's a very giving
performer and writer. He's looking for jokes for you as much as jokes for
himself.''

That commitment to collaboration was apparent on the set of ''Sleeping With
Other People,'' as in a scene in which Jake uses a bottle to teach Lainey a
masturbatory maneuver called the Dirty D.J.

''Leslye was like, 'I don't want it to come off creepy,' and we all worked
together to find that balance of it being friends while actually being kind of
sexy,'' Ms. Brie said. ''A lot of that is owed to the humor that Jason infuses
into the scene but also just a naturalness with which he makes everybody
comfortable.''

''He literally empowers you to do what you want,'' Ms. Headland added. ''He's
like, how can I help you do your thing?''

That Mr. Sudeikis turns 40 in September might partly explain his desire to take
on more emotionally resonant characters. So might his engagement to the actress
Olivia Wilde (following his 2010 divorce from the writer-actress Kay Cannon) and
the birth of their 16-month-old son, Otis.

''My own human exposition definitely informs both the choice of roles and the
way I go about attempting to execute them,'' he said. ''I was certainly going
through a personal journey before meeting Olivia similar to Jake's, which was
trying to figure out how to allow myself to be loved after the death of a
relationship and to go on and make better choices. Coming out of singledom and
getting to fall in love with Olivia in New York -- that's probably all in the
film.''

Coming roles include another romantic turn, this time opposite Rebecca Hall in
''Tumbledown,'' and the part of the coach to the Olympic runner Jesse Owens in
''Race.'' Increasingly in projects, there's a character he gravitates toward,
someone he has often sought out in his life, he said, ''someone who sees a
little bit more in you than you know you have to give, because sometimes we can
get in our own way.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/movies/jason-sudeikis-courts-with-comic-flair-
in-sleeping-with-other-people.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jason Sudeikis in Manhattan. He aspires to transcend being
pigeonholed as a smirking wiseguy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (AR10)
Top, Kristen Wiig and Jason Sudeikis (with Kevin Spacey, right) in one of their
memorable ''Saturday Night Live'' sketches. Above, Alison Brie and Mr. Sudeikis
play sex addicts in the comedy ''Sleeping With Other People.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
DANA EDELSON/NBC
 LINDA KÄLLÉRUS/IFC FILMS) (AR11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); COURTSHIP & DATING (89%); SEXUAL
HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); WRITERS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); COMEDY
FILMS (73%)

PERSON: KRISTEN WIIG (79%); KEVIN SPACEY (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reeling Chelsea Loses at Home; City Sets a Club Record

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words


Breaking a 103-year-old club record, Manchester City reeled off its 10th
straight Premier League victory on Saturday. For José Mourinho, a landmark day
produced an unwelcome result, with his 100th home league game in charge of
Chelsea ending in only a second loss.

City's fourth success of the new season was a 2-0 home victory over Watford.
Raheem Sterling scored his first league goal as City continued its quest to
regain the trophy from Chelsea, which appears to be imploding.

A 2-1 loss to visiting Crystal Palace left Chelsea with only 4 points from four
games heading into the international break. Although Radamel Falcao canceled out
Bakary Sako's Palace opener by heading in his first Chelsea goal in the 79th
minute, Crystal Palace was back in front inside two minutes on a Joel Ward
score. Chelsea is already 8 points adrift of City.

On the day Palace won at Chelsea for the first time since 1982, West Ham beat
Liverpool, 3-0, to end an even longer winless run at Anfield, which stretched to
1963.

Arsenal relied on an own goal by Fabricio Coloccini to win, 1-0, at Newcastle,
which played for 75 minutes with 10 men.

There were two red cards at Stoke, shown to two home players within seven
minutes, in its game against West Bromwich Albion, which won, 1-0, on a Salomon
Rondon header.

Like Stoke, Sunderland and Tottenham are still searching for their first wins of
the season.

Sunderland was held to a 2-2 tie at Aston Villa, and Tottenham-Everton ended in
a scoreless draw.

Bournemouth, playing its first season in the top flight, has 4 points from four
after drawing, 1-1, with Leicester.

BARCELONA EDGES MáLAGA  Thomas Vermaelen scored his first goal for host
Barcelona to give the team, the Spanish league's defending champion, a second
straight hard-fought 1-0 league win, this one over Málaga.

Barcelona opened up a provisional 5-point lead over Real Madrid.

David Moyes's Real Sociedad is still searching for its first victory -- and its
first goal -- after the team drew, 0-0, with Sporting Gijón. The point away from
home was a second good result for Sporting, a promoted club that also held
Madrid to a 0-0 draw last weekend.

A.C. MILAN WINS Two of A.C. Milan's new forwards combined to give the Rossoneri
a 2-1 win at Empoli, but Mario Balotelli remained on the bench after his return
from Liverpool last week. The win was Milan's first in Serie A under its new
coach, Sinisa Mihajlovic, after last week's 2-0 loss at Fiorentina.

Sassuolo won, 1-0, at newly promoted Bologna to move to the top of Serie A for
the first time in its history. Sassuolo, which played its first Serie A match in
2013, could be pushed off the top of the standings as early as Sunday, though.
Bologna still has no points.

BAYERN MOVES TO THE TOP Thomas Müller celebrated his 200th Bundesliga match with
two goals as Bayern Munich, the defending champion, powered past Bayer
Leverkusen, 3-0, to go to the top of the standings with its third win in three
matches.

Cologne rallied to win at home against a 10-man Hamburger S.V., 2-1, and the
promoted Ingolstadt won, 1-0, at Augsburg, which was last season's surprise team
and qualified for the Europa League.

Darmstadt earned its third draw in three games, holding off visiting Hoffenheim,
0-0.

Eintracht Frankfurt won, 4-1, at Stuttgart, and host Mainz shut out Hannover,
3-0.

HAT TRICK SPURS LYON Nabil Fekir scored his first French league hat trick as
Lyon, last year's runner-up, won by 4-0 at Caen. Reims moved provisionally to
the top of the standings with a 4-1 victory at Lorient.

Rennes is level with Reims and Paris St.-Germain after coming from behind to
beat Toulouse, 3-1.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/soccer/chelsea-falters-at-home-manchest
er-city-breaks-club-record.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (78%)

PERSON: MARIO BALOTELLI (79%)

CITY: SUNDERLAND, ENGLAND (92%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (90%); BARCELONA, SPAIN
(90%); NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dodging Zombies and Seeking a Pub

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; SNAPSHOT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words


When your first movie role is the youthful incarnation of one of the all-time
great villains, where do you go from there? For Frank Dillane, who at 16 won an
open casting call to portray Tom Marvolo Riddle -- the boy who would be Lord
Voldemort -- in ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince,'' you get thee to the
Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. By auditioning with Hamlet's soliloquy, no less.

'' 'To be or not to be' was the question,'' Mr. Dillane said. '' 'Not to be'
was, I think, the answer. But they let me in.''

For a son of the British actors Stephen Dillane (''Game of Thrones'') and Naomi
Wirthner, it seemed the only logical choice given the DNA.

Blood also plays a part in Mr. Dillane's latest undertaking. In AMC's ''Fear the
Walking Dead,'' Mr. Dillane, now 24, plays Nick Clark, a heroin-addicted
Angeleno who is alerted to a zombie plague when he catches his girlfriend
munching another guy's face. Reviewing this ''Walking Dead'' spinoff in The New
York Times, Mike Hale called Nick ''the most interesting character so far --
already walking dead in human terms, but possessed of a healthy survival
instinct.''

Mr. Dillane -- who titillated the hive as Shugs in Netflix's ''Sense8'' and in
December will appear as a seafaring New Englander in Ron Howard's ''In the Heart
of the Sea'' -- revealed his own survival instinct in a recent phone call from
Britain. These are excerpts from the conversation.


Q. So are you a ''Walking Dead'' fan?


A. I never watched it actually, but -- sure, I'm a ''Walking Dead'' fan, why
not?


Tell me about Nick.


His father died, which informs a lot. With the absence of a father, anything
goes, doesn't it? And his girlfriend was the first person to get infected. He
doesn't have much to live for. Hold on one second, I've just got to ask where I
am. [As cars whiz by, Mr. Dillane is heard saying: ''Excuse me, mate, excuse me.
Is there a station that way?'']


Are you on a road trip?


I don't know if I should tell you, really. I was having an argument in a car,
and that resulted in me being dumped on the side of the road. I've got to find
my way to a pub, and I'm sort of running late.


Well, that's an interesting tidbit.


Oh God, don't put that in the article. She'd kill me. I'd never hear the end of
it. I assume it's my fault. It usually is.


You're in Sussex on the road?


Unless I wake up in a minute and suddenly come to in a bed in Las Vegas or
something.


O.K., I'll get back on track. I read that you took a gap year and lived in a
caravan in your parents' backyard.


''Lived in a caravan'' sounds much cooler than it is. I think let's just leave
it at [that] and let everyone else make their own minds up.


The Royal Academy of Dramatic Art is rigorous.


Boot camp in tights.


But it allowed you to break the rules and appear in the film ''Papadopoulos &
Sons'' with your father.


He's just an incredible actor, my old man. I've had to wean myself away to make
sure that any choices I make are grounded in myself rather than the seeking of
approval. Hold it. I got lost. [Garbled woman's voice. Something about a pub.]


Did Nick change you?


Only yesterday it occurred to me that I have this want inside, that I'm very
unsettled at the moment. And a friend said it's probably because I'd been
playing an addict for so long. You don't realize until afterwards that if you
feed the subconscious, it will bleed into your everyday life. [Exhales.] Ah,
found the pub.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/television/frank-dillane-of-fear-the-walk
ing-dead-dodging-zombies-and-seeking-a-pub.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAARTEN DE BOER/CONTOUR BY GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE CASTING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%);
HEROIN (52%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (52%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (66%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (66%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(66%)

PERSON: RON HOWARD (78%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (56%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 63 words


An article last Sunday about the legacy of Helen Gurley Brown misstated the name
of a television program that drew inspiration from Ms. Brown's books. It is
''Mad Men,'' not ''Mad Man.'' The article also misstated part of the title of
Eve Burton, the Hearst Corporation executive who is the co-executor of Ms.
Brown's will. She is a senior vice president, not a vice president.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (85%); EXECUTIVES (83%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (71%); NAICS511130
BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711
NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paul Royle, 101, Who Fled Nazis in a 'Great Escape'

BYLINE: By DANIEL E. SLOTNIK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 579 words


Paul Royle, whose escape from a German prisoner of war camp in 1944 with 75
other Allied soldiers inspired the 1963 Steve McQueen movie ''The Great
Escape,'' died on Aug. 23 in Perth, Australia. He was 101.

His son Gordon wrote in an email message that Mr. Royle died from complications
after surgery for a fractured hip. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation
reported that his death left only one remaining survivor of the escape: Dick
Churchill, who is in his 90s and lives in England.

Mr. Royle, a Royal Air Force flight lieutenant originally from Australia, was
one of 200 prisoners who dug several tunnels using improvised tools at the
Stalag Luft III camp in Sagan, then a part of Germany and now in Poland. His job
was to dispose of the excavated dirt.

''Long, thin tubes made of material, like long underpants, were put under our
ordinary trousers,'' Mr. Royle told The Sunday Mercury, a British tabloid, in
2008. ''The bottom was tied together with a bit of string, we shoveled this
stuff into the long underpants, then you would nonchalantly wander around
getting rid of the dirt.''

He was one of 76 prisoners who made it through a tunnel on a freezing night in
March. He and a comrade wandered in the German countryside for about a day
before they were recaptured. Only three of the escapees reached freedom -- 50
were executed, including the man who was with Mr. Royle.

He later told Air Force, the official newspaper of the Royal Australian Air
Force, that he never understood how the German soldiers had decided whom to
execute.

''Rationality didn't come into it,'' Mr. Royle said. ''I haven't a clue as to
why I wasn't chosen.'' He was liberated and made his way to England in 1945.

In 1950, Paul Brickhill, another Australian P.O.W. involved in the escape,
published a book about the experience called ''The Great Escape.'' The book was
made into a 1963 film starring James Garner, Richard Attenborough and Charles
Bronson, in addition to Mr. McQueen.

The movie took liberties with historical events by featuring Mr. McQueen leaping
over a barbed wire fence on a motorcycle.

Mr. Royle told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation in 2014 that he did not
care for the film.

''The movie I disliked intensely because there were no motorbikes,'' Mr. Royle
said. ''And the Americans weren't there.'' (The American officers at the camp
were transferred before the tunnel was completed.)

Gordon Paul Royle was born in Perth on Jan. 17, 1914, but went by Paul since his
youth. He was recruited for the R.A.F. in the late 1930s. His plane was shot
down when he flew his first mission in 1940, and he was soon taken prisoner.

After the war, he settled in England, where he married Georgina Rufford
Forster-Knight, in 1946. They soon moved to Australia and had three children,
Paul and Francis Royle and Margaret Verling, and then divorced in 1961. He
married Pamela Yvonne Fortune, later that year. They had two children, Gordon
and Lucy Royle. He is survived by his wife and children; a sister, Shirley
Rogers; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.

Mr. Royle spent much of his career working on major civil engineering projects
around the world. He retired at 66 and returned to Perth, where he had lived
since.

Before the war, Mr. Royle studied a trade that would prove useful during his
imprisonment -- mine surveying. He returned to mining after he was liberated and
continued working in it until he switched to engineering in the mid-1950s.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/paul-royle-who-fled-nazis-in-a-great-esc
ape-dies-at-101.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Royle in June, holding a photo of himself in uniform. He
was one of 76 escapees from Stalag Luft III in 1944. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARRY
SARRE/GORDON ROYLE, VIA A.P.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); POWS & MIAS (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); HISTORY
(73%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); MOTOR
VEHICLES (72%); BONE FRACTURES (71%)

COMPANY: AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORP (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS
(85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); SIC4832 RADIO
BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%)

CITY: PERTH, AUSTRALIA (88%)

STATE: WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (73%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); ENGLAND (88%);
CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); POLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rights Unraveled

BYLINE: By JEFFREY ROSEN.

Jeffrey Rosen is president and chief executive of the National Constitution
Center and a law professor at George Washington University. His biography of
Louis D. Brandeis will be published next year.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1351 words


GIVE US THE BALLOT The Modern Struggle for Voting Rights in America By Ari
Berman372 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $28.  Fifty years ago, when President
Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act on Aug. 6, 1965, he felt, his
daughter Luci said, ''a great sense of victory on one side and a great sense of
fear on the other.'' According to Ari Berman, a political correspondent for The
Nation, he knew the law would transform American politics and democracy more
than any other civil rights bill in the 20th century, but he also feared that it
would deliver the South to the Republican Party for years to come. Both
predictions proved to be accurate. ''The revolution of 1965 spawned an equally
committed group of counterrevolutionaries,'' Berman writes in ''Give Us the
Ballot.'' ''Since the V.R.A.'s passage, they have waged a decades-long campaign
to restrict voting rights.'' Berman argues that these counterrevolutionaries
have ''in recent years, controlled a majority on the Supreme Court'' and ''have
set their sights on undoing the accomplishments of the 1960s civil rights
movement.''

Berman's claim that those he calls the counterrevolutionaries -- including Chief
Justice John Roberts -- have set out to undo the accomplishments of the 1960s
is, of course, contested. Still, Berman usefully explores how the debate over
voting rights for the past 50 years has been a debate between two competing
visions: Should the Voting Rights Act ''simply provide access to the ballot,''
as conservatives claim, or should it ''police a much broader scope of the
election system, which included encouraging greater representation for
African-Americans and other minority groups''? Regardless of where you fall on
this policy question, one historical trend is clear: Every time the Voting
Rights Act came up for renewal, from 1969 to 2006, Republicans and Democrats in
Congress and the White House repeatedly endorsed the broader interpretation. And
the Supreme Court repeatedly responded by imposing the narrower interpretation
by judicial fiat.

The initial success of the Voting Rights Act in increasing minority voter
registration is striking and impressive: In the Â­decades after Johnson signed
the act, black voter registration in the South soared from 31 percent to 73
percent and the number of African-American elected officials nationwide expanded
from fewer than 500 to 10,500. And in 1969 the Warren court, by a 7-2 vote, held
that the act prevented Mississippi from adopting an at-large election system for
county supervisors, since countywide elections were harder for minority
candidates to win. But after Richard Nixon won the election of 1968 with a
Southern strategy, he appointed four Supreme Court justices who took a less
expansive view of the scope of the Voting Rights Act.

In a 1980 decision, the Burger court upheld an at-large election system in
Mobile, Ala., on the grounds that both the 14th and 15th Amendments and
Sectionâ[#x20ac]¯2 of the Voting Rights Act required evidence of an intent to
discriminate against Â­African-Americans. (Later, as Berman tellingly observes,
a smoking gun emerged: a 1909 letter from a former Mobile congressman
confessing, ''We have always, as you know, falsely pretended that our main
purpose was to exclude the ignorant vote when, in fact, we were trying to
exclude not the ignorant vote but the Negro vote.'') Republicans and Democrats
in Congress resolved in 1982 to overturn the Mobile decision with amendments to
the act that restored the Supreme Court's previous ban on voting changes that
had a discriminatory effect. Conservatives in the Reagan administration lobbied
against the amendments, including John Roberts, then a 26-year-old special
assistant to the attorney general, who wrote more than 25 memos opposing them.
''An effects test would eventually lead to a quota system in all areas,''
Roberts wrote. Nevertheless, the Senate and the House restored the effects test
by a nearly unanimous vote, and President Ronald Reagan signed the amendments,
which he followed with a reception attended by Coretta Scott King.

Roberts's prediction that the amendments to the Voting Rights Act would lead to
demands for proportional representation for minorities proved to be accurate.
But it was vindicated in an unexpected partisan twist that ultimately cost the
Democrats the South, just as Johnson had feared. After George H.W. Bush's
election in 1988, his campaign manager, Lee Atwater, the new head of the
Republican National Committee, decided to form what Berman calls ''an improbable
partnership with black Democrats in the South to overthrow the white Democrats
who had controlled the region since the end of Reconstruction.'' By interpreting
the newly amended Voting Rights Act to require the creation of majority-black
districts whenever possible, the Bush Justice Department, Atwater believed,
could ''siphon black voters away from adjoining white Democratic districts,
making those districts whiter and more conservative.''

The strategy worked. In 1992, 17 Â­African-American representatives were elected
to Congress as Democrats from newly created majority-black districts, the
largest minority class ever. But two years later, the Republicans gained 54
seats in the House and retook the chamber for the first time in four decades.

After the 2000 election, the Justice Department of George W. Bush decided to
focus on voter fraud rather than on maximizing minority representation. Despite
this shift in strategy, President Bush signed a sweeping, bipartisan
reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act in 2006, once again passed by a nearly
unanimous Congress, because he concluded -- like Presidents Nixon, Ford and
Reagan before him -- that opposing the act would harm the Republican Party's
standing with black voters. Seven years later, on June 25, 2013, the Supreme
Court, by a 5-4 vote, struck down the formula Congress had adopted in 1965 and
renewed in 2006 for identifying jurisdictions subject to federal oversight.
Chief Justice Roberts held that it violated the Constitution because of progress
in black voter registration and electoral success. In her blistering dissent,
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said Congress, not the court, had the constitutional
authority to define progress in voting rights. ''Hubris is a fit word for
today's demolition of the V.R.A.,'' she wrote.

In 2014, the first election since 1965 without the preclearance protections of
the Voting Rights Act, voters in 14 states faced new voting restrictions adopted
by mostly Republican legislatures, including a voter identification law in Texas
and cutbacks on same-day registration and early voting in North Carolina. The
Supreme Court allowed both laws to go into effect, over dissents from Justice
Ginsburg. But because the new voting restrictions were arguably adopted to help
Republicans rather than harm Â­African-Americans, the Supreme Court may continue
to uphold them on the grounds that the Constitution does not prohibit
hyperpartisanship by legislatures. Berman notes that ''the number of voters
potentially affected by new barriers to the ballot box exceeded the margin of
victory in close races for Senate and governor in North Carolina, Kansas,
Virginia and Florida, according to the Brennan Center for Justice.''

''Give Us the Ballot'' is an engrossing narrative history rather than
constitutional analysis. Berman does not explore why justices who are devoted to
the original understanding of the Constitution have repeatedly voted to narrow
the scope of the Voting Rights Act with the argument that the equal protection
clause of the 14th Amendment is colorblind. (In fact, as Justice John M. Harlan
observed in his 1964 dissent from one of the original Supreme Court decisions
regarding ''one man, one-vote,'' the framers of the 14th Amendment believed that
the equal protection clause did not regulate voting or apportionment at all.)
Still, Berman vividly shows that the power to define the scope of voting rights
in America has shifted from Congress to the courts, a result that would have
surprised the Reconstruction-era framers.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/give-us-the-ballot-by-ari-berman.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Day 5 of the march from Selma to Montgomery, Ala., in March
1965.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN BUDNIK/CONTACT PRESS IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTION
LAW (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MINORITY GROUPS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%);
SUPREME COURTS (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%);
POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TRENDS (76%);
PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (79%); RICHARD NIXON (57%)

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Pop Diva's B-Side

BYLINE: By JACOB BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; ENCOUNTERS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 933 words


Robyn, the 36-year-old Swedish pop star, was in Los Angeles recently, decked out
in a pale blue bustier and lying on a bed, as part of the video shoot for her
latest single, ''Love Is Free.''

Around her, the soundstage resembled a block party for Brooklyn hipsters as
tattooed men in Dickies jumpsuits danced around with fanny packs on their belts.
Markus Jagerstedt, the music producer, was by a mirror, laughing about the way
he looked with his face slathered in red paint, his orange hair blown high as a
skyscraper. The staccato house beat from ''Love Is Free'' thumped from the
speakers.

Everyone was having a grand old time, except Robyn.

One minute, the camera zoomed in for a close-up and she seemed nearly on the
verge of tears. The next, she moved to her dressing room for a touch-up, where
she tossed everyone out, bellowing: ''Can I get a little peace?''

Robyn may be known for her up-tempo dance music, quirky lyrics and sky-high
platform shoes, but pain and sorrow lurk beneath her raver-style armor.

Nearly 20 years ago, she rose to fame with ''Do You Know (What It Takes)'' a
teeny-bopper anthem that was produced by Max Martin, the producer who helped
jump-start the careers of Britney Spears and the Backstreet Boys.

But that sort of music never really inspired her. After having a religious
experience dancing at the Shelter, a popular club for gay black men that started
in TriBeCa, she left her record label in 2004 and re-emerged as a space-age
disco queen with a depressive bent.

If Bjork and Cyndi Lauper gave birth to a love child in the techno tent at
Coachella, she would assuredly be Robyn.

At a time when superheroes dominate the box office and airbrushed pop stars top
the music charts, misanthropy and melancholy have yet to bring global stardom to
this pixieish woman with short spiky hair and a penchant for black eyeliner. But
her influence has clearly been felt.

In 2005, Robyn selected a largely unknown producer named Klas Ahlund on her
first foray into dance music, ''Robyn.'' The album drew raves from critics, and
Mr. Ahlund went on to work with Katy Perry, Kylie Minogue, Kesha and Jordin
Sparks.

In 2009 and 2010, Robyn released a three-part music collection called ''Body
Talk,'' which earned a four-star rating from Rolling Stone, a solid A from
Entertainment Weekly, and a Grammy nomination for its first single, ''Dancing on
My Own.''

Madonna gushed about the album in interviews, saying ''I love Robyn.'' She also
collaborated with Mr. Ahlund on the very Robyn-esque song ''Some Girls,'' for
her 2012 album, ''MDNA.'' Nicolas Ghesquière, one of the fashion world's
pre-eminent arbiters of cool, selected ''Monument'' -- a moody track from ''Do
It Again,'' Robyn's 2014 recording with Royksopp -- as the soundtrack for his
debut show as the artistic director at Louis Vuitton.

As for Ms. Perry, she tapped Robyn to open her ''California Dreams'' world tour,
telling MTV that Robyn is ''the tastemaker,'' the person she and Prada and
Rihanna and everyone turn to for inspiration, from the music she makes to
footwear she sports onstage. ''She's just, like, the epitome of effortless
cool,'' Ms. Perry said.

(Robyn didn't exactly return the love. Asked by Time Out New York what she
thought of Ms. Perry's music, she laughed and said: ''You know what? I have to
go now.'')

Which in a way was a fitting response from an artist whose biggest hits,
including ''Be Mine'' and ''Dancing on My Own,'' are about feeling overlooked
and ill at ease. Her latest work continues in that trajectory for reasons that
extend beyond Robyn's uniquely Scandinavian flair for despair.

The five-song recording ''Love is Free,'' was released this month and was
recorded in Stockholm between the fall of 2013 and the spring of 2014. It was
produced by Robyn with her longtime collaborators Mr. Jagerstedt and Christian
Falk.

Shortly after they got to work on it, Mr. Falk was found to have pancreatic
cancer. He died that July, leaving Robyn and Mr. Jagerstedt with a laptop of
unfinished tracks along with a blessing from Mr. Falk to complete the material
in his absence. (The resulting recording is credited to Robyn & La Bagatelle
Magique, the group the trio formed).

Back at the video shoot, a large photograph of Mr. Falk hung on a wall near a
smiley face that was meant to evoke an acid tab. Robyn seemed to be striking a
balance between holding on to a friend who died and wanting to prevent ''Love Is
Free'' from turning into a wake for him.

''We didn't want to make a memorial album,'' she said later that afternoon, when
she re-emerged from her dressing room and returned to the set.

This time, Robyn seemed chipper and ready to go, holding a white veil that
evoked an early Madonna, circa ''Like a Virgin.'' The song ''Love Is Free,''
which sounds like a mash-up of Technotronic's ''Pump Up The Jam'' and Missy
Elliott's ''Pass That Dutch,'' was turned up high, and Robyn started bouncing on
the bed as if it were a trampoline.

The video's story line, if there was one, was utterly incomprehensible. Maybe
that was the point.

''It's not about being as absurd as possible,'' Robyn said. ''But it's also not
about being about something in particular, either. We just wanted to do
something fun and inspiring and playful.''

Moments later, she was done with the shot, and the crew broke for lunch.

''Good, good,'' Robyn said, as she walked toward Mr. Jagerstedt and gave him a
hug, this time flashing a hint of a smile. And for a moment, what shined through
was not a downbeat diva's air of perpetual discontent, but her resilience in the
face of it.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/robyn-the-space-age-disco-queen-with-a
-dark-bent.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Robyn during the making of her new music video in Los
Angeles. Below, Markus Jagerstedt, the music producer, on the set with Robyn.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN FRANCIS PETERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); CELEBRITIES
(90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC GENRES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); RECORD
PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MEN (76%); GRAMMY AWARDS
(71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

PERSON: KATY PERRY (79%); MADONNA (79%); BRITNEY SPEARS (58%); KYLIE MINOGUE
(57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's Solo Rock 'n' Roll, but He Likes It

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1896 words


Sometime around 2011, Keith Richards was ready to retire from his life in rock
'n' roll. Approaching half a century with the Rolling Stones, he had done it
all. ''I know what luck is. I've had a lot,'' he reflected in an interview this
month.

He's the archetypal rock guitarist: the genius wastrel, the unimpeachable
riff-maker, the architect of a band sound emulated worldwide, the survivor of
every excess. Onstage, he is at once a flamboyant figure and a private one,
locked in a one-on-one dance with his guitar, working new variations into every
song. ''I never play the same thing twice,'' he said. ''I can't remember what I
played before anyway.''

With the Stones in ''hibernation'' after a tour that ended in 2007, Mr. Richards
took two and a half years ''immersed in my life twice'' to write (with James
Fox) a best-selling memoir, ''Life,'' that re-examined his many sessions, tours,
trysts, addictions, mishaps, arrests and accomplishments. After ''Life'' was
published in 2010, he was enjoying being a family man and a grandfather.
Retirement was a real possibility.

''I thought, that's the craziest thing I ever heard,'' said Steve Jordan, Mr.
Richards's longtime co-producer and drummer on his solo projects. ''He felt
comfortable with where he was and what he had done and what he had achieved. But
knowing Keith, to not have him pick up an instrument and play, it was weird.
When you're a musician, you don't retire. You play up until you can't breathe.''

Mr. Jordan nudged Mr. Richards in a different direction: back into the recording
studio to make his first solo album in 23 years, ''Crosseyed Heart'' (Republic),
to be released Sept. 18. ''I realized I hadn't been in the studio since 2004
with the Stones,'' Mr. Richards said. ''I thought: 'This is a bit strange.
Something in my life is missing.' ''

It's a straightforwardly old-fashioned, rootsy album that could have appeared 20
years ago. The instruments are hand-played, the vocals are scratchy growls, and
the songs revisit Mr. Richards's favorite idioms -- blues, country, reggae,
Stonesy rock -- for some scrappy storytelling. The album was recorded on analog
tape. ''I love to see those little wheels go around,'' Mr. Richards said.

Eased onto a couch at his manager's downtown Manhattan office, surrounded by
merchandise from this year's Rolling Stones tour and memorabilia dating back
decades, Mr. Richards, 71, alternated between a Marlboro and a drink. He was
wearing an ensemble only he could pull off: a striped seersucker jacket over a
black T-shirt decorated with a Captain America shield, black corduroy jeans and
silvery-patterned running shoes. A woven headband in Rastafarian red, gold and
green held back his luxuriantly unkempt gray hair. A silver skull ring was, as
usual, on his right hand as a reminder, he has said, that ''beauty's only skin
deep.''

In a conversation punctuated by his wheezy, conspiratorial growl of a laugh, he
was a man at ease with himself as a rock elder. ''It's all a matter of
perspective and which end of the telescope you're looking at,'' he said.

''Nobody wants to croak, but nobody wants to get old,'' he said. ''When the
Stones started, we were 18, 19, 20, and the idea of being 30 was absolutely
horrendous. Forget about it! And then suddenly you're 40, and oh, they're in it
for the long haul. So you need to readjust, and of course kids happen and
grandchildren, and then you start to see the pattern unfolding. If you make it,
it's fantastic.''

Mr. Richards has outlived many of his longtime musical collaborators, most
recently the Stones' saxophonist Bobby Keys, who made one of his last studio
appearances on Mr. Richards's album. Born the same day as Mr. Richards, he died
in December. ''You get used to losing good friends,'' Mr. Richards said. ''They
keep croaking on me.''

His enduring attachment is to music, and to his guitar. ''I get into a very warm
relationship with the guitar. I sleep with it at times,'' he said. ''There would
be no 'Satisfaction' if I hadn't been sleeping with the guitar in the bed that
night. Apparently I woke up in the middle of the night and hit a button on this
new thing at the time, a cassette machine. But I did this all either in a dream
or in my sleep and wrote 'Satisfaction.' Without the guitar being right next to
me I wouldn't have done it. Not that I sleep with it every night -- the old lady
would complain.'' (He has been married to Patti Hansen since 1983.)

A new documentary, ''Keith Richards: Under the Influence,'' was directed by
Morgan Neville (the Oscar-winning ''20 Feet From Stardom'') and will be shown
via Netflix beginning Sept. 18. It includes recording sessions for ''Crosseyed
Heart,'' glimpses of the Rolling Stones' past and Mr. Richards's return visits
to cities like Chicago and Nashville. The ''influence'' of the documentary's
title is musical, not pharmaceutical, as Mr. Richards recalls all the idioms he
has absorbed, among them flamenco and jazz. In the documentary, Mr. Richards
also observes: ''I ain't a pop star no more, y'know? And I don't want to be.''

Pop fame, he now insists, was never his goal. ''I only did it by accident. All I
wanted to do was play. And then given the time that we were working in, '63,
'64, you realized you can't just sit around and make records. You have to become
famous,'' he said. ''To tell the truth, I didn't mind it once it was going. I
mean, I'm 19 and all these chicks are screaming at me,'' more amorous, he added,
than they had been six months earlier. ''But at the same time you've done the
crossroads bit without knowing it'' -- that is, in blues lore, selling one's
soul to the Devil.

''At times, it can be a bit annoying, but who are you to get annoyed because
people like you?'' he said with a chuckle. ''Live with it, pal.''

Mr. Richards's solo career started amid strife in the Rolling Stones, a period
in the late 1980s that he has called the band's ''World War III.'' Mick Jagger,
his partner in songwriting and producing, had chosen to make solo albums with
younger, au courant collaborators. Mr. Richards decided to dig into his own,
bluesier music, anchored by Mr. Jordan on drums, with whom he had backed Chuck
Berry in the tense 1987 documentary ''Hail! Hail! Rock 'n' Roll.''

For Mr. Richards's first solo album, ''Talk Is Cheap,'' in 1988, they assembled
a band of seasoned studio musicians, including Waddy Wachtel on guitar and Ivan
Neville on keyboards, who would go on to tour with Mr. Richards as the X-Pensive
Winos and make a second album, ''Main Offender,'' in 1992. ''Talk Is Cheap''
featured ''You Don't Move Me,'' a direct taunt at Mr. Jagger's solo efforts:
''You lost the feeling/Not so appealing.''

Things are more diplomatic now. The Stones endure, with concerts planned in
South America early next year. ''Healthy competition is O.K.,'' Mr. Richards
said. ''Mick and I's relationship is, we've known each other longer than anybody
else. We've known each other since we were 4 or 5 years old. There's been a lot
of gaps in between, but at the same time, you've known somebody from the
playground. We twist and turn. I mean, yeah, now and again we have beefs because
we're like brothers in that respect, and what brothers don't have beefs now and
again?''

But after years of inactivity, the Rolling Stones stirred only once Mr. Richards
was recording again. The making of ''Crosseyed Heart'' was interrupted by a
handful of Rolling Stones concerts marking the band's 50th anniversary in 2012.
And before Mr. Richards could allot time to promote ''Crosseyed Heart,'' the
Stones geared up for this year's American tour.

''The record's been finished for about a year, but then the Stones go back into
work. Oh, right,'' Mr. Richards said. ''We've been holding it back and finding
the right space to put it out. But the Stones won't be working again until next
year. So I do have this space to do something on my own without anybody getting
their feathers ruffled.''

''Crosseyed Heart,'' Mr. Richards said, is the first album he has made without a
deadline. Mr. Jordan described the sessions as ''very civilized,'' just one or
two afternoons a week. ''Which is very different from the other albums,'' Mr.
Jordan added, ''when we would start at midnight and end at 8 a.m.''

The album gathered momentum after a tentative start. ''He felt rusty,'' Mr.
Jordan recalled. ''But his facility started coming back to him, and then the
fire started to return, and the energy got ramped up, and then all of a sudden
we were making a record.''

Mr. Wachtel and Mr. Neville returned for some tracks, though much of the album
comes down to Mr. Jordan's beat and Mr. Richards on guitars, bass and piano. On
his own, he matches the loose-but-tight mesh of rhythm and lead guitar that he
gets with Ronnie Wood in the Rolling Stones. ''He's a counterpuncher,'' Mr.
Jordan said. ''If you have a driving beat, he can just jab; you throw a punch,
he comes right back.''

The earthy momentum of the music carries lyrics full of contentious romance,
hard knocks and betrayals, in songs with titles like ''Trouble,'' ''Amnesia,''
''Substantial Damage'' and ''Suspicion.'' More than one lyric, as in ''Nothing
on Me'' and ''Robbed Blind,'' worries about encounters with the police. ''My
life is getting busted and getting out of it,'' Mr. Richards said. ''Writing the
book brought back certain things. So much has happened and sometimes you just
forget about it. Especially getting busted is not something you want to dwell
on. But then you think about it, and you think, maybe there's a song in there.''

In ''Illusion,'' the voice of Norah Jones suddenly wafts up; it's a troubled
couple's ballad for which Ms. Jones wrote the woman's side of the dialogue.
''It's got a slow burn,'' she said admiringly. ''I wanted it to sound like an
early-morning argument, or a very late-night one.'' Recording it was ''pretty
old-school,'' she recalled. ''We only did three takes, and they took the first
one. It's not like it has to be perfect -- it has to be real, especially with
Keith.''

Mr. Richards hopes to reconvene the X-Pensive Winos for at least a handful of
shows before the Rolling Stones go back on the road. He's also impatient for the
Stones to make another album. ''My favorite dream is to get the Rolling Stones
off of a tour and straight into the studio,'' he said. ''It'll probably never
happen, but I can hear the band that tight, when it's really honed and toned and
all the screws are in the right place. A lot of the earlier records we made were
in between tours. We'd come straight off the road and go straight into the
studio, which is why some of those records have so much bounce and hit on them
-- the energy.''

He added: ''We're playing South America in February and March, and I would like
to get in the studio around April or May next year. It's been too long. They
need to record. I can feel something in my bones saying we have to record. And
maybe this'' -- his solo album -- ''will be a little kick up the arse.''

His eyes light up and his smile broadens when he talks about performing.
''People keep asking questions about, 'How do you do it?' I was made to do it,''
he said. ''Playing live, that's the essence of what I do. As I say to Ronnie
when we go onstage, 'Right, now we can get some peace and quiet.' There, nobody
can disturb us. We're invulnerable.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/music/keith-richards-on-crosseyed-heart-i
ts-solo-rock-n-roll-but-he-likes-it.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The latest record by Keith Richards, now 71, is his first solo
outing in 23 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEDI SLIMANE) (AR1)
Top: Keith Richards in the coming Netflix documentary ''Keith Richards: Under
the Influence.'' Above from left, Mick Jagger andMr. Richards in May
the Glimmer Twins, as they are known, in 1973. Above right, the X-Pensive Winos
in 1988: from left, Ivan Neville, Waddy Wachtel, Steve Jordan, Mr. Richards,
Charlie Drayton and Bobby Keys, who died in December. Left, with Norah Jones,
who sings on ''Crosseyed Heart,'' in the studio. ''It has to be real, especially
with Keith,'' she says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. ROSE/NETFLIX
MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS
ROBERT KNIGHT ARCHIVE/REDFERNS
PAUL NATKIN/WIREIMAGE
 KEVIN MAZUR) (AR14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL
LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%);
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%);
INTERVIEWS (72%); RECORD INDUSTRY (69%)

PERSON: KEITH RICHARDS (94%); MICK JAGGER (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Term, on TV

BYLINE: By JEREMY EGNER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 535 words


The Gipper's having a great year on TV.

Though the former president and film star Ronald Reagan was not as well known
for his small-screen roles, a crop of new and recent shows set in the '80s is
allowing him a posthumous shot at television stardom.

In addition to ''Narcos,'' a Netflix series that chronicles the rise of the
Colombian cocaine king Pablo Escobar, in which Mr. Reagan appears multiple times
in news footage, he also shows up either in period clips or impersonated by
actors in the Cold War spy thrillers ''Deutschland 83'' and ''The Americans'';
the comedy ''Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp''; and, beginning Oct.
12, in the FX crime drama ''Fargo.''

So what's behind TV's Reaganaissance? Children of the 1980s are making
television now, and clearly the former president's era-defining effect makes him
a convenient, indelible foil for any showrunner looking to re-examine that
period.

But Bruce Campbell, the cult star of the ''Evil Dead'' films, who will play
Reagan in ''Fargo,'' suspects that in a time terrorized by nebulous militant
groups and other hazily defined enemies, there's a certain nostalgia for ''a
commander in chief who says, 'I'm gonna bomb your ass,' '' he said.

''Nobody talks like that now,'' he said. ''Obama's like: 'Hey let's hold a
summit. Let's take a consensus.' ''

In addition, he added about Reagan, ''that guy's hair was magnificent.''

In ''Fargo,'' Reagan will be appear as a presidential candidate swinging through
1979 Minnesota. Mr. Campbell, 57, has been honing his Reagan impression since
high school, which, not coincidentally, he attended alongside John Cameron, a
''Fargo'' executive producer. The key, he said, is to pronounce the ''w'' words
with extra expiratory oomph -- ''WH-ell,'' ''WH-ere'' -- and spike the
avuncularity with a certain chiding quality.

''He was like the man who was mad at you for hitting your softball through the
window,'' he said. ''He was the scolder-in-chief.''

Here's a brief survey of some of TV's other Reagans.

Cynical figurehead

''Narcos'' posits, somewhat fuzzily, that Reagan's hard line on illegal drugs
was motivated by American business leaders, who were concerned about all the
money flowing into the foreign narcotics trade, rather than concern for
America's youth. Cue the famous ''Just say no'' speech that he and the first
lady delivered.

Sinister puppet master

In Netflix's ''Wet Hot American Summer'' prequel, Michael Showalter gives an
''it-sort-of-looks-like-him-if-you-squint'' performance as the president, who
oversees a plan to destroy a summer camp to hide a toxic waste plot and who is
more than happy to slap his aides over and over again. The premise recalled Phil
Hartman's classic Reagan impersonations on ''Saturday Night Live,'' in which the
folksiness masked a coldly calculating dark side.

Saber-rattling menace

The 1983 ''Evil Empire'' speech opened the first episode of ''Deutschland 83,''
a German-language series that debuted this summer on SundanceTV, and closed out
the most recent season of FX's ''The Americans.'' ''The man literally wants to
destroy us,'' Keri Russell's spy character tells her husband in ''The
Americans.'' Maybe, but how about that hair?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/television/ronald-reagan-receives-a-new-t
erm-on-tv.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Showalter as Ronald Reagan in the prequel to ''Wet Hot
American Summer.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAEED ADYANI/NETFLIX)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); MYSTERY &
SUSPENSE FILMS (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS
(76%); COLD WAR (75%); COCAINE (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Signs of a Captive Market

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3045 words


Is there anything that cannot be turned into a weapon? Walk around the
exhibitors' hall at the conference of the American Correctional Association,
held in Indianapolis in early August, and at some point the question will answer
itself. Apparently, with enough malign intent and the right tools -- a lighter,
for instance -- even disposable plates can be transformed into shivs.

''This is a piece of Styrofoam, rolled, then heated, then rolled and heated some
more,'' said Michael Robertson, salesman for a company called JonesZylon. He
handed over a dark brown, six-inch spike that looked nothing like a piece of
Styrofoam. Touch its sharpened end and it felt like the tip of a blade.

''Now this,'' he continued, handing over a plastic JonesZylon serving tray,
''you can't weaponize.''

The tray is part of an extensive line of plastic kitchen products, including
cups, plates and bowls, sold by the company. You will find these in just about
every federal prison, Mr. Robertson said. They can't be rolled and heated into
anything harmful, and if inmates throw them at you, they will not inflict much
pain.

''You'd definitely feel it,'' he said.

''But,'' a colleague said, ''it won't penetrate the skin.''

Mr. Robertson was one of 264 vendors in booths at the Indiana Convention Center
for what is essentially a trade show for the prison industry. It is the shiny,
customer-friendly face of a fairly grim business. The A.C.A. accredits jails and
prisons and is also the country's largest association for the corrections field,
with a membership filled with wardens and state and county correctional
administrators.

The convention is where those people window-shop. The United States currently
imprisons about 2.2 million people, making it the world's largest jailer. Those
in charge of this immense population need stuff: food, gas masks, restraints,
riot gear, handcuffs, clothing, suicide prevention vests, health care systems,
pharmacy systems, commissary services -- the list goes on. These outlays are a
small fraction of the roughly $80 billion spent annually on incarceration,
though precise sales figures are hard to come by because most companies in this
niche market are private. Two publicly traded players, the private prison
operators Corrections Corporation of America and the GEO Group, have a combined
market capitalization of almost $5.8 billion. Both companies had booths in
Indianapolis.

For prison vendors, this would appear to be a historically awful moment.
Sentencing reform has been gaining momentum as a growing number of diverse
voices conclude that the tough-on-crime ethos that was born 40 years ago, and
that led to a 700 percent increase in the prison population since 1970, went too
far. Mandatory minimum laws, many of them passed at the state and federal level
in the '70s, '80s and '90s locked people away for decades, often for relatively
minor, nonviolent offenses. Those laws have had a disproportionate impact on
African-Americans, who tend to serve longer sentences than whites.

For families, the results have been devastating. Former inmates are stigmatized
and have a far harder time finding jobs, causing incalculable social and
economic damage. And a paucity of rehabilitation programs keeps many former
criminals ensnared. Nearly three out of four inmates offend again after five
years.

The first stirrings of sentencing overhaul happened five years ago, around the
time that California's prison system was so bursting with inmates that a federal
court called the conditions unconstitutional and mandated reductions. Texas has
stepped up its use of community supervision programs and drug courts. For the
first time in state history, it has closed prisons -- three of them. The point
is to save money, as former Gov. Rick Perry underscored time and again.

More recently, for reasons both humanitarian and fiscal, the notion of changing
sentencing laws has gone national. At a time when congressional Democrats and
Republicans agree on almost nothing, there is a rare political consensus that
the criminal justice system needs to try something other than severity. In July,
when President Obama called on Congress to pass laws that would slash mandatory
minimum sentences for nonviolent offenders, the response was essentially ''We're
already on it.'' Bills like the Smarter Sentencing Act have support across the
spectrum, from Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois on the left to Senator Ted
Cruz of Texas on the right.

My goal ambling through the oddly colorful bazaar in Indianapolis for three days
was to see what effect -- if any -- this much discussed change was having on the
hard-nosed bottom line. Was anyone here experiencing a slump, or even bracing
for one? Nobody wants businesses to suffer financially, but if you think the
current incarceration system is a calamity, there is no way around it: Bad news
for these companies is good news for the country. And if change was coming, or
had already arrived, these vendors would be among the first to know.

I had no idea what I would find. But a few days before the exhibition doors
opened, I spoke on the telephone to a skeptic, a guy who just didn't believe
that the country was really on the verge of a correctional system makeover.

''It's hard for me not to be cynical about it,'' said Jack Cowley, a retired
warden who lives in Oklahoma. ''Think about the size of our system, all the
judges and lawyers, putting their kids through college, people that make leg
irons, Tasers. Crime is driving the train. It's like a business that is too big
to fail.''

Prison in Lime and Mango

The A.C.A. bills its conferences as events offering ''multiple ways to network
with industry professionals, find a mentor, get a sneak peek at emerging
technology and hone your leadership skills.'' This sounds like any other
conference in any other industry, and in many ways it was. Many booths were
staffed by average-looking men standing beside strikingly attractive women.
There were a lot of polo shirts stitched with company names. Branded tchotchkes,
like pens and key chains, were laid out for the taking. A raffle for a Chevy
Cruze was held on the final day. A woman fell to her knees in joy when she won.

Beyond the familiar conference format, however, things got weirder. Secure, a
Mexican company that sells bulletproof glass, showed a video in which the
company's president stood behind his product -- while it was repeatedly shot at
with a gun. The guy tried to look nonchalant by puffing on a cigarette.

The event was open to the media, though for reasons that were never clear, news
photographers were barred from the exhibit hall. While A.C.A. doesn't want the
industry shrouded in mystery, it is not eager for a close-up either. This might
stem from less-than-flattering attention the conference has received in the
past. A documentary called ''Profits of Punishment,'' released in 2001, included
a stroll through the A.C.A. exhibitors' hall, where vendors boasted a little too
proudly of the effectiveness of their merchandise. One woman talked about the
600 stitches an inmate needed after an encounter with her company's barbed wire.
The film captures an industry relishing a boom.

''The growth in the corrections population here in the United States will
probably double in the next 10 years,'' one vendor says on film, clearly
pleased. ''They're building just about as fast as they can.''

In Indianapolis this summer, there were the ingratiating smiles that are always
part of sales, but nobody seemed giddy. Concern about sentencing reform was in
the air, but more than a few vendors seemed to regard the trend as a business
opportunity.

Bob Barker started selling supplies to prisons in 1972, which, coincidentally,
was the same year that a gentleman with the same name started hosting a certain
television game show. Though the two look nothing alike, he has been confused
for the more famous Bob Barker for so long he has stopped correcting people.

''Guy was just over here who said, 'I've followed you since you were on 'Truth
or Consequences!' '' Mr. Barker reported with a smile. ''I said, 'I appreciate
that.' ''

When Mr. Barker founded his company, he met a lot of incredulous wardens.

''I would go into jails and start talking toothbrushes and deodorant and I'd
get, 'What do you think this is, a Holiday Inn?' If somebody didn't bring you
underwear or a toothbrush you didn't get it.''

Then the drug culture grew, and detention professionals realized that to prevent
the flow of drugs into prisons, they had to stop visitors from handing anything
to inmates. When that happened, they started buying from Mr. Barker, who today
sells about 5,000 different items, making him the largest detention supplier in
the country. His inventory includes laundry bags, boots, board games and
something called the BarkerBunk, described as ''the toughest stackable
correctional specific inmate bunk.''

Mr. Barker would not say much about his company's financial performance in the
last two or three years, other than to describe it as ''sort of flat.'' He seems
unbothered by that, noting that the industry provided his family with a good
living for 40 years. But his son, Robert Barker, who is the company's president,
was standing next to him, and he sounded anything but defeatist.

''We're looking long term at how we can be part of the solution,'' the younger
Mr. Barker said. ''With more re-entry programs out there, we're looking at
future supply opportunities.''

There was a foray into house arrest ankle monitors, but a couple of
conglomerates moved into that field and the Bob Barker Company got out. Since
then, the company has been pumping 10 percent of company profits into research
in a hunt for new ventures. So far, the elder Mr. Barker says he has only a few
vague ideas. As he put it, ''We haven't found the silver bullet.''

Like Bob Barker, many companies are trying to diversify. In 2013, Corrections
Corporation of America, the country's largest private prison company, purchased
Correctional Alternatives, which specializes in re-entry programs, like work
furloughs and home confinement.

''We have continued to look for opportunities in this service area,'' a
spokesman for C.C.A. wrote in an email. ''It aligns with the needs of our
government partners, who are increasingly looking to this type of solution.''

Many at this conference were what could be called platform agnostic, including
Norix, which describes itself as the country's largest maker of prison
furniture. Its slogan is ''Engineered to endure,'' and to illustrate the point,
the company ran a looping video at its booth featuring inventive assaults on its
furniture. One snippet featured a vinyl armchair being slowly squashed down to
10 inches high by a pneumatic crusher.

When the machine slowly uncrushed the chair, it retook its original shape.

''Sales to prisons are flat to down,'' said Sandy Heitman, a senior project
manager. ''But more people are being put into mental health facilities, and that
portion of the business has increased.'' The same is true, she added, of halfway
houses.

We sat on some Norix furniture, which was the opposite of the austere, steel
slabs you see in prison documentaries. Norix still makes that style of product,
but it was highlighting a vinyl collection that comes in lively colors that the
company calls lime, mango, orchid and reef. The furniture is intended to be more
''humanizing,'' a word that is prominent on the company's website.

''This is a more healing environment,'' Ms. Heitman said, gesturing to the
products.

As she spoke, the video showed a man in a lab coat jackhammering a chair.

What Reductions?

The A.C.A. was started as the National Prison Association in 1870 by a group of
wardens who thought the justice system needed to emphasize reform and
rehabilitation. At its opening session, the group's chairman lamented that
prisons ''do not work that reformation in the soul of man that will restore him
to society regenerated and reformed.'' By 1971, the group had been renamed and
its annual conference was more about tear gas and stun guns than the souls of
men, as detailed in Jessica Mitford's book ''Kind and Usual Punishment.''

Halcyon days lay ahead. There was a succession of tough-on-crime presidents,
including Bill Clinton, who signed a bill in 1994, which he recently renounced,
that lengthened sentences. The '80s and '90s were good decades for what is
ominously referred to as the prison-industrial complex. In 2005, an article in
Prison Legal News about an A.C.A. conference described an almost festive
atmosphere. At one point, a young woman in a pink top and silk net stockings
gave free shoe shines, courtesy of Aramark, the food giant.

That scene is hard to imagine now. Many of the attendees were women. And if your
idea of a prison official is lifted from pop culture -- say, ''Orange Is the New
Black'' or ''The Shawshank Redemption'' -- you would be disappointed. When
attendees were not roaming the exhibitors hall, they sat through a variety of
earnest workshops with titles like ''College Behind Bars: Too Soft or Very
Sensible?'' (very sensible, according to two academics from Boston University).
In another, ''Defining Serious Mental Illness in Corrections,'' the audience was
split into groups and asked to refine a definition of serious mental illness. My
group spent the entire time in a meta-debate about the debate.

During the conference, there was a sign-up sheet for tours of local correctional
facilities. This initially sounded ridiculous, the ultimate busman's holiday,
but the tours were overbooked. I snagged a spot for a visit to the nearby Marion
County Jail. It started with a group of about 25 people climbing aboard what
felt like a maximum-security minibus. Incongruously, Foreigner's ''Hot Blooded''
was playing over loudspeakers.

I asked a prison warden why on earth she wanted to spend her free time in a
jail.

''Best practices,'' she said, brightly. ''See what other places are doing.''

The only moments of the tour that were not dreary and kind of heartbreaking came
when I spotted products from vendors in the exhibition hall. That is Norix! That
is JonesZylon! Early on, we were introduced to a staff seamstress mending a
suicide prevention vest made by Bob Barker.

The Marion County Jail, our guide explained, is at capacity and recently sent
some inmates to a nearby site operated by C.C.A., the private incarceration
company. This speaks to a big reason that vendors in Indianapolis seem unruffled
by talk of prison reform. It hasn't had a big impact, at least not yet, and it
doesn't seem that it will in the future.

To understand the ''not yet'' part, consider California, site of the country's
most ambitious inmate reductions. The court-ordered program to ease cramped,
triple-bunk conditions started in October 2011. To date, the system's head count
in the 34 facilities covered by the overcrowding litigation has dropped to
111,000, from 144,000.

But the numbers aren't quite what they seem. The law passed in 2011 mandated
that new offenders sentenced for nonviolent or nonsex crimes would serve their
time in county jails. The days when a jail was a just a pretrial holding pen are
over, and the population in those cells is starting to bulge. Yes, there has
been a net decline in the total population of incarcerated people in the state.
Just not at a rate that would alarm anyone selling, say, inmate blankets.

''These declines are too small,'' said Peter Wagner of the Prison Policy
Initiative, which campaigns for prison reform. ''The numbers are trending
downward, but slowly and not consistently.''

Mr. Wagner also doubted that prison reform laws knocking around Congress, as
well as many states, would reduce the prison population as much as some people
thought, because they are focused on drug and nonviolent offenders. As numbers
collected by the Urban Institute demonstrate, half of all inmates in state
prisons are violent offenders, and state prisons are home to 86 percent of the
nation's inmates.

Yet it is hard to find a politician talking about sentencing reform for violent
offenders, a subject that is demonstrably and understandably contentious. In
Arkansas, the state eased laws for parolees in 2011, trying to cope with budget
issues. Two years later, a man with a history of parole violations and
aggravated robbery and theft convictions shot and killed an 18-year-old in
Little Rock. The state's board of corrections swiftly enacted new and tougher
standards.

''It changed everything,'' said Dina Tyler of Arkansas Community Correction, as
she stood outside the exhibition hall. ''They started bringing parolees in by
the truckload.'' This month, state corrections officials reported that 19,055
inmates were under state jurisdiction, the largest number in Arkansas history.
The prison population is also rising in dozens of states.

Against this backdrop, the relative serenity of vendors in Indianapolis made
sense. Still, if you looked in the right places, the event quietly reflected a
change in attitude that should hearten supporters of reform. For years,
attendees said, the only people at these conferences talking about
rehabilitation or the well-being of inmates were faith-based groups like the
Salvation Army. This time, there were workshops on re-entry success stories and
alternative sentencing for juveniles, and many others like it.

There were also companies in the exhibition room selling products aimed at
improving the lives of inmates. One of them, JPay, markets a gadget that looks
like a small iPad ready for a riot. It's encased in a plastic shell and can
survive a 30-foot drop. It doesn't connect to the Internet, but it does allow
monitored access to music and email. The company markets it as an efficient way
for inmates to nurture connections with the outside world. Currently, it is in
detention facilities in 14 states.

''It keeps them engaged; it keeps them from fighting,'' said the company's head
of marketing, Jade Trombetta. ''If I send an email that says, 'I'm going to
shank this guy, he's screwing with me,' Mom writes back: 'Don't. You have one
year left. You shank the guy, you're going to add two years to your sentence.'
That stuff helps.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/business/prison-vendors-see-continued-signs-of
-a-captive-market.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: a respiratory helmet, for use in riot
control when tear gas is likely to be present
a transparent typewriter to thwart the smuggling of contraband
high-security, pick-resistant handcuffs
and a wheelchair made of molded plastic parts that cannot be fashioned into
weapons. (ST1)
From left, a foam container and a JonesZylon tray, with weapons made from them:
a stainless steel cell-ready plumbing fixture
and a suicide prevention vest, too thick to be torn and turned into a noose.
Below, from top, monitoring devices, plugged in to fake guns for a demonstration
of a weapons control system
''less-lethal ammunition,'' which delivers colored powder, tear gas or an
offensive smell
and a tamper-proof key ring.
 Bob Barker is the founder of the Bob Barker Company, which supplies more than
5,000 items to the detention industry, from board games to stackable inmate
bunks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRECTIONS (90%); PRISONS (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%);
RETAILERS (88%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (78%); TRADE
SHOWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (75%); SENTENCING (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%);
MARKET CAPITALIZATION (67%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (67%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS
(61%); SUICIDE (50%)

COMPANY: CORRECTIONS CORP OF AMERICA (83%); GEO GROUP INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CORRECTIONAL ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: CXW (NYSE) (83%); GEO (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561210 FACILITIES SUPPORT SERVICES (83%); NAICS487110 SCENIC &
SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION, LAND (83%); SIC8744 FACILITIES SUPPORT MANAGEMENT
SERVICES (62%)

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%)

STATE: INDIANA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lauren Piro, Ryan Lemanski

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 114 words


Lauren Elizabeth Piro, a daughter of Linda M. Piro and Richard G. Piro of
Hazlet, N.J., was married Saturday to Ryan Thomas Lemanski, the son of Karen M.
Lemanski and Richard E. Lemanski, also of Hazlet. The Rev. Daniel Kirk, a Roman
Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Benedict Catholic Church in
Holmdel, N.J.

The bride, 28, is keeping her name. She works for Hearst Magazines in New York
as a senior web editor at Good Housekeeping and House Beautiful. She graduated
magna cum laude from Villanova.

The groom, also 28, is a human resources associate at Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center in New York, where he supports hospital employees. He graduated
from Rutgers.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/lauren-piro-ryan-lemanski.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RELIGION (87%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM
(87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (84%); CANCER (51%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (72%); NAICS511130
BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711
NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Once a Pariah, Now a Transgender Judge

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5584 words


HOUSTON --  Nearly four decades before Caitlyn Jenner introduced herself to the
world, Phyllis Randolph Frye came out as a transgender woman in a far less
glamorous way. No Diane Sawyer, no Vanity Fair.

It was the summer of 1976. As Bruce Jenner, 26, was celebrating his decathlon
victory at the Montreal Olympics, Phillip Frye, 28, was admitting defeat in
suppressing his gender identity. He, becoming she, had already lost a lot: He
had been forced to resign from the military for ''sexual deviation.'' He had
been disowned by his parents, divorced by his first wife and separated from his
son. He had been dismissed from several engineering jobs.

Now, with the encouragement of his second wife, Trish, he was starting to
transition and wanted to be forthright. Going door to door, he distributed
letters to advise the community that the neighbor formerly known as Phil -- the
husband, father and born-again Christian; the former Eagle Scout, Texas A & M
University cadet and Army lieutenant -- was going to start living full time as
Phyllis.

In response, she got her house egged, her tires slashed, and her driveway
spray-painted with obscenities. Teenagers openly mocked her, the engineering
profession blackballed her and the federal government rejected her for a job
because of her ''desire to impersonate the opposite sex.''

During that bleak, embittering time, Ms. Frye could not have imagined that
someday this tiny transgender population would generate a hugely visible
movement, and that she would be considered not only one of its pioneers but a
pillar of her civic community -- the country's first openly transgender judge.

''All my life, I have gotten judged,'' she said in a recent interview in her
office, surrounded by her many degrees and awards, movie posters for ''Tootsie''
and ''Transamerica,'' and photographs of Trish, to whom she has been married for
42 years.

Ms. Frye, 67, did not watch Ms. Jenner, 65, come out as a transgender woman on
national television in late April: ''It's old hat to me,'' she said. Nearly 17
million viewers did, though, as Ms. Jenner tapped into what some have seen as a
bafflingly sudden moment of ubiquity for transgender Americans (roughly
estimated at 700,000 adults).

But this moment -- when transition stories are increasingly and empathetically
featured in the media, campuses buzz with gender politics and the president
condemns transgender persecution in the State of the Union address -- did not
materialize out of thin air. It evolved over the last quarter-century as Ms.
Frye and others built a transgender civil rights movement, fighting dexterously
to rebrand a highly marginalized group; demand, and increasingly win, equal
protection under the law; and put the T in L.G.B.T.

Despite a historic affinity between gay and transgender people, mainstream gay
rights groups did not initially embrace the transgender cause as their own. They
saw it as a liability. Yet from the time their far younger movement coalesced,
most transgender advocates felt kinship and a practical need to ally themselves
with the large, relatively well-financed gay movement.

''We realized that we should have a parallel movement, but also needed to be dug
into the L.G.B.T. movement,'' said Mara Keisling, the executive director of the
National Center for Transgender Equality. ''The folks I work most closely with
are all very nice, sweet people, but we had to be such hard asses. At a certain
point, we said, 'No more moving gay people ahead without trans people.' ''

Having felt the sting of gay groups' rejection long ago, Ms. Frye led some of
the earliest sorties in what became a pitched battle for transgender inclusion.
She repeatedly argued that homophobia and transphobia were entwined, and made
the case that many transgender people are themselves gay.

At the same time, Ms. Frye was one of the first to act on the need for
transgender advocates to develop their own legal theories and agenda. In the
1990s, she convened annual transgender law conferences, where grass-roots
activists from around the country first met and developed an aspirational
transgender bill of rights. Between events, she helped tether the growing
network through group emails she called her ''Phyllabusters.''

''Caitlyn Jenner stands on the shoulders of somebody like Phyllis Frye,'' said
Shannon Price Minter, the legal director of the National Center for Lesbian
Rights and one of several transgender appointees by the Obama administration.
''Phyllis is the grandmother of our movement.''

Precursors

When Ms. Frye was a small child, Christine Jorgensen became a worldwide
celebrity after traveling to Denmark for gender reassignment surgery: ''Ex-GI
Becomes Blonde Beauty,'' The New York Daily News trumpeted in December 1952;
''Bronx 'Boy' Is Now a Girl,'' said The New York Times.

In the years that followed, while other transgender people quietly sought
treatment abroad, too, no real transgender community developed. There were
precursors: private cross-dressing clubs on the West and East Coasts, most
notably Hose & Heels (for heterosexual men only), and a gritty urban subculture
of drag queens in big cities like New York and San Francisco.

But in San Antonio, in the 1950s, Ms. Frye grew up the middle child in a
middle-class home where gender roles, true to the era, were rigidly fixed. Her
father was an engineer and a Mason, her mother a stay-at-home mom and amateur
painter. Tarzan and Jane, she called them in a speech once.

As a young boy, Phillip Frye coveted his female cousin's junior bake set and his
mother's spike heels. But he got ''the cues'' -- ''not for boys, not for you.''
Fearful of detection, he overcompensated with machismo, telling the ''dirtiest
jokes'' with the ''foulest mouth.''

''I was so good at being a guy that I should have won an Oscar,'' she said. ''I
was an extremely good Boy Scout -- but I would have rather been in the Girl
Scouts. I was the R.O.T.C. commander of my high school -- but I would have
rather been the head cheerleader. And I cross-dressed whenever I could, in
private.''

In Phillip's high school years, his mother uncovered a cache of her own
clothing, and underclothing, in her son's closet. Was Phillip just
experimenting? she asked hopefully. Yeah, he said.

''My parents would have pitched me out then if I told the truth,'' Ms. Frye
said. ''Because when I did come out, a decade later, my dad said, 'You're dead
to me if you do this.' And he kept his word.''

In 1966, as Phillip Frye was entering the nearly all-male engineering program at
Texas A & M, transgender history was being made, though that has come to be
understood only in retrospect.

In the Tenderloin district of San Francisco, the drag queens who hung out at
Gene Compton's 24-hour cafeteria rose up against police harassment. Susan
Stryker, who wrote ''Transgender History,'' published in 2008, considers it the
first collective, militant ''queer'' uprising against police harassment in this
country's history. It predated by three years the Stonewall Rebellion, which
galvanized the gay rights movement.

Nineteen sixty-six was also the year that Harry Benjamin, a German-born
endocrinologist based in New York, published a groundbreaking book, ''The
Transsexual Phenomenon.'' Dr. Benjamin advanced the now widely accepted idea
that gender identity could be distinct from anatomical gender; he implored the
American medical community to help those who so desired align their bodies with
their identities through hormones and surgery.

Additionally, the first university-based gender identity clinic in the country
opened at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. Dr. Benjamin's research and
the clinic were both bankrolled by one of the doctor's patients, a wealthy
transgender man named Reed Erickson; the movement continued to be self-financed
by transgender people through the early 2000s.

Wearing the garrison cap of a ''fish,'' or freshman member of the Corps of
Cadets, in conservative College Station, Tex., Phillip Frye, like most
Americans, had no idea such things were occurring. Like many transgender people
of that generation, he thought he was alone, or nearly so.

During his junior year at college, Phillip Frye married his girlfriend. They had
a son. While he continued to dress in women's clothing, he did so furtively and
shamefully, explaining his secret to his wife only after she caught him.

Upon graduation, he was commissioned by the Army and stationed in West Germany
with his family. His marriage began to crumble. Lieutenant Frye revealed the
reason behind the marital discord to his superiors, and was sent back to the
United States, where he made a good-faith effort to be ''cured.''

He underwent drug therapy, hypnosis and aversion therapy, in which he was
induced to vomit while handling women's underwear. The therapies didn't work.
His wife filed for divorce.

And in mid-1972, the Army, citing a diagnosis of ''transvestism, chronic,
treated, unchanged, manifested by the compulsive need to wear female clothing,''
accepted his resignation ''in lieu of elimination.'' He was granted an honorable
discharge because he had been forthright about his personal life.

Not long afterward, he slit his wrists.

At a Low Point

Looking back, Ms. Frye considered her suicide attempt out of character. It was
''the ultimate in self-pity,'' she wrote in autobiographical notes contained in
the Phyllis R. Frye Collection, part of the L.G.B.T.Q. Archive of Cushing
Memorial Library at Texas A&M.

Material in the collection helps piece together what happened next, filling in
elements of a life story that Ms. Frye does not relish retelling at this
juncture. (Instead, she gave The Times a thumb drive with her ''war stories''
from that period, as delivered in speeches.)

The collection includes personal correspondence and a curious document, a
49-page government investigation report, based on scores of interviews with Ms.
Frye's neighbors, colleagues and associates and written by a Civil Service
adjudicator when she applied for a federal job.

After hitting that low point in 1972, Phillip Frye rallied, found work as a
civil engineer, became a born-again Christian and fell in love with Trish, who
briefly broke off their engagement but came to accept the cross-dressing.

''She said something to the effect of, 'If you can stop short of surgery, I will
try to learn to accommodate the rest,' '' Ms. Frye explained in a speech in
1999.

Others were not so accepting. Phillip Frye lost a job at his alma mater after
the department chairman heard rumors he was shopping for women's clothing in
College Station, his former supervisor told investigators.

''Source stated that he was able to get subject a job in Pennsylvania and
apparently subject assumed a very masculine role while working in
Pennsylvania,'' the report said. ''According to source, he got married to his
current wife, Trish, while in Pennsylvania and grew a full-length beard.''

The couple returned to Houston in late 1974. Phillip Frye, who was starting to
venture out at night in women's clothing, continued to get and lose engineering
jobs. Finally his wife urged him to stop living a double life.

And in an era when most transgender people, for their own preservation, ''lived
stealth,'' as it was called, Ms. Frye came out with a megaphone.

''I put on my skirts five weeks ago, and I have not taken them off,'' she said
in the fall of 1976, in one of many lectures about her gender identity that she
volunteered to give at local universities. ''During the past five weeks, I have
felt normal for the first time in 28 years.''

Ms. Frye described herself in the lectures as a ''transgenderist.'' She was
adopting a term popularized by Virginia Prince, founder of Hose & Heels and
Transvestia magazine, who introduced it in the 1960s to describe people who
lived full time in the ''gender opposite to their anatomy'' without having
surgery.

In addition to the letters left with her neighbors, Ms. Frye wrote hundreds to
relatives and ex-classmates. Robert L. Boone, director of the Singing Cadets at
Texas A&M, was one of the few who wrote back.

''I am not able to emotionally or intellectually accept you as Phyllis,'' he
said.

Mr. Boone, who is now deceased, referred to alumni participation in concerts:
''As a former singing cadet, Phil (Fish) Frye, the guy we knew, is welcome to
join us. However Phyllis Frye is a stranger to us, and is not a former Singing
Cadet, and therefore would not be welcomed on stage.''

At the end of an agonizing 13-page missive to her mother, Ms. Frye begged for
acceptance: ''Let me be the Phyllis that cries to emerge.'' She closed, in her
peppery fashion, ''I love you all. Don't trade my balls for my heart,'' signing
the letter, ''Phil.''

After a long period of unemployment, during which she was reduced to accepting
Christmas food donations from her church, Ms. Frye applied for the government
job. And, despite the gossip and prejudice they shared with investigators, all
but one of those interviewed recommended Ms. Frye without reservation, saying
she was ''a loyal citizen of the United States.''

But the government rejected her. In a 1977 letter addressed to Mr. Frye --
though by this time she had legally changed her name to Phyllis -- the
adjudicator excoriated her ''pattern of unorthodox practices.'' He described her
as a ''disruptive influence'' in her community, ''parading around in short
shorts, dresses and other female attire.''

Ms. Frye responded by telling the official that she was dismayed by the
''disgust-filled manner'' in which he had exercised his ''administrative duty.''

''I am not worthy of the extreme dislike which glares out at me from your
letter,'' she wrote. She added, ''I don't own any short shorts.''

'Voice-y People'

Like the mainstream gay movement, the transgender movement was initially
dominated by white professionals. Their privilege shielded them from the harsher
realities of extreme poverty and deadly violence encountered by many of their
constituents. It also, some say, gave them an edge.

''Take my case -- and Phyllis is similar,'' said Ms. Keisling, the transgender
leader. ''I grew up white, middle class, educated and male. Suddenly I found
myself marginalized. But I had always had the privilege to speak up. A lot of
civil rights movements start from voiceless people. Our movement had a lot of
voice-y people.''

From the moment Ms. Frye transitioned, terrified of being arrested, she waged a
battle against a Houston ordinance that made cross-dressing illegal.

Such laws not only criminalized gender identity, they also created a wedge with
the gay community. Drag, a transgender magazine, published an editorial in 1972
that denounced gay clubs in New York for barring drag queens, who were seen as
creating a justification for police raids. ''The only thing we can do is yell a
lot,'' the editorial acknowledged, ''and embarrass the clubs as they continue to
say, 'Go away, little girl, we can't allow you to stay.'''

In Houston, Ms. Frye lobbied city leaders for four years until the
cross-dressing law was repealed in 1980. By that time she was pursuing a law
degree, which she hoped would give her ''the tools to defend myself against all
the crap that was dished my way.''

The self-defense, combined with a charm offensive, began in law school itself,
at the University of Houston. During her first semester, she felt shunned.
Determined to break out of her isolation, she requested the seating charts for
her classes, memorized her classmates' names and approached them one by one. She
tussled with the administration to gain access to the women's restroom, the kind
of fight that continues to this day.

''The public has a deep fear of trans people in bathrooms, and specifically of
penises in girls' rooms,'' said Chase Strangio, a transgender lawyer with the
American Civil Liberties Union's LGBT & AIDS Project. ''We organize our society
around very fixed notions of who men and women are, and people whose very
existence challenges that provoke visceral, irrational reactions.''

The Christian Legal Society, in which Ms. Frye sought solace, was so provoked.
Its members began meeting secretly to avoid praying with her -- until she got
their group suspended for discrimination.

In law school, she was undergoing significant physical changes as she adjusted
to feminizing hormone therapy and underwent electrolysis for her facial hair.

''I was kind of a mess,'' she said, ''but I graduated, and nobody booed or
heckled me when I walked across that stage for my diploma.''

Unable to find a firm willing to hire her and reluctant to hang out her own
shingle, Ms. Frye peddled Amway cleaning products and worked occasionally as an
engineering consultant.

After getting a case by chance and winning it, Ms. Frye felt emboldened to
solicit work from judges who appointed counsel for indigent defendants. Little
by little, she developed a specialization in criminal defense and made herself a
fixture in the Harris County Courthouse, wearing big hats in an effort to make
her headwear, not her gender identity, her signature.

Politically, she was active with the state Democrats, the League of Women Voters
and the local gay and lesbian caucus, where she routinely crossed paths with
Annise Parker, who is now in her third term as Houston's mayor.

At one point in the 1980s, Ms. Parker gave Ms. Frye a ride to a conference.
During the drive, Ms. Frye confided that she sorely missed playing sports, and
that no women's team would let her join.

Ms. Parker, who coached a lesbian softball team, looked over at the strapping,
5-foot-10 woman beside her and thought, ''I really need a power hitter.''

''I got back to her later and said, excuse the pun, 'I'm willing to go to bat
for you,' '' Ms. Parker said.

Ms. Frye, who had watched admiringly as the transgender tennis player Renée
Richards won the right to compete as a woman in the United States Open in 1977,
became the first transgender woman in Houston's lesbian softball league. She and
her wife, who were socially isolated, found themselves welcomed into a
community.

Ms. Frye did not become the reliable power hitter that Ms. Parker had hoped for,
however.

''She only wanted home runs,'' Ms. Parker said. ''She was always swinging for
the fences.''

Liberating Feelings

For years, apart from scattered support groups, transgender people had no way to
find one another.

And then came the Internet.

In the early 1990s, Gwendolyn Smith, a desktop publisher at a California
reprographics company, stumbled on an offer for five free hours on something
called America Online. She discovered chat rooms and, in particular, one named
TV Chat. (The community referred to itself then as TV/TS --
transvestite/transsexual.)

Relative anonymity was liberating.

''It was on American Online that I first identified myself regularly by a
feminine name and gender and explored my trans feelings,'' said Ms. Smith, now a
columnist for The Bay Area Reporter in San Francisco. ''I found my people.''

After some initial resistance from AOL, Ms. Smith opened a dedicated chat room
for transgender people, The Gazebo. It became a gathering place, a resource
center and a bulletin board.

''When The Gazebo happened, all hell broke loose,'' Ms. Keisling said.
''Suddenly there was a place where we could be out in a safe way and build a
community and grow a voice.''

By the mid-1990s, Ms. Smith said, The Gazebo had tens of thousands of unique
visitors a month. Many veteran leaders of the transgender movement first
connected there -- and first assembled in 1992 when Ms. Frye summoned them to a
Hilton Hotel in Houston for the International Conference on Transgender Law and
Employment Policy.

Like others, Ms. Frye was frustrated that gay groups had distanced themselves
from the transgender cause. Although transgender activists like Sylvia Rivera
had played a prominent role at Stonewall, a rift developed afterward. In the
early 1970s, mainstream gay groups came to emphasize ''a gender normative model
of gay identity,'' as Mr. Minter, the White House appointee, put it.

''The Gucci-shoes crowd, the gays and lesbians on Wall Street, they saw us as a
politically embarrassing subgroup,'' Ms. Frye said. ''In Houston, the gay and
lesbian political caucus thought we were going to slow down their progress. So
it became, 'If they're going to shut us out, then we're going to do our own
thing.'''

Ms. Frye put the expenses for the first conference on her personal credit card
and crossed her fingers that people would show up. They did.

''Those conferences were like lifelines,'' said Paisley Currah, a political
scientist at Brooklyn College and co-editor of Duke University Press's
Transgender Studies Quarterly. ''It was very exciting to meet other transgender
activists face to face, and to cement the networks that were going to be
necessary to put the movement in place.''

In addition to articulating legal theories in areas like transgender employment,
housing and health law, conference participants drafted the International Bill
of Gender Rights, which proclaimed, ''All human beings have the right to define
their own gender identity regardless of chromosomal sex, genitalia, assigned
birth sex or initial gender role.''

At the conferences' helm, Ms. Frye delivered motivational lectures, typically
ending with a call to action: ''Once again I say this to you, my sisters and my
brothers, if I could do that in the late '70s and early '80s, what is your
excuse? You have no reason for staying scared. You have no reason for staying
closeted. You have no reason for not being the true person that you are. This is
our decade. Make it happen for you now.''

She had recently cleared some hurdles herself. She had rebuilt a relationship
with her son, by then in his 20s, although the reconciliation lasted only about
a decade. (Her son declined to be interviewed.) She had also undergone a removal
of the testes, which reduces testosterone, and won the right to amend her birth
certificate.

Ms. Frye never opted for full gender-reassignment surgery. Ahead of her time,
she firmly believed that surgery did not ''complete'' a gender change and should
not be imposed on transgender people to justify a legal gender change on
identification documents. ''For many years I have been about the business mostly
of freeing our community from the legal need of the scalpel,'' she said in a
speech in the 1990s.

During that period, for personal and political reasons, she and others
consciously adopted ''transgender'' as an umbrella term.

''We framed the relevant community as broadly as possible to make the case that
we're all in this together -- not just transsexual people but people who
cross-dress, butch lesbians, feminine gays and so on,'' Mr. Minter said.

Mr. Minter himself was going through a transition that would prove useful as a
bridge between the gay and transgender communities. When he joined the National
Center for Lesbian Rights as a lawyer, he identified as female and lesbian. In
the mid-1990s, he found himself a transgender man inside the lesbian rights
movement -- and kept his job.

This was at a difficult time, when gay groups were allowing transgender people
to be excluded from statewide nondiscrimination laws ''left and right,'' said
Lisa Mottet, deputy executive director of the National Center for Transgender
Equality. Minnesota, in the vanguard, had included transgender people in 1993,
but it was eight years before a second state, Rhode Island, followed suit.

The tone was set on high. The Human Rights Campaign, the largest gay rights
organization in the country, agreed to drop transgender people from the federal
Employment Nondiscrimination Act when it was introduced in Congress in 1994.
(The legislation failed then and has yet to win passage.)

''That started the war with H.R.C., and it was a war,'' Ms. Frye said.

Afterward, Ms. Frye and a handful of others, notably Riki Anne Wilchins, who had
founded a grass-roots activist group called Transsexual Menace, took matters
into their own hands. They started a transgender lobbying day in Washington.
They also found common cause with another frustrated group.

''In 1995, when I went to my first Creating Change conference,'' Ms. Frye said,
referring to the large gathering on gay issues, ''the trans caucus and the
bisexual caucus had a combined meeting and decided to carry each other's
water.''

On the West Coast, another branch of the movement was gelling. San Francisco's
Human Rights Commission produced a comprehensive report on discrimination
against transgender people that served as a template for grass-roots groups
across the country.

Also in San Francisco, Ms. Smith, horrified to learn of the stabbing death of a
transgender woman named Rita Hester in Massachusetts, raised the topic in The
Gazebo one night in 1998. She compared the case to the murder the previous year
of another transgender woman, Chanelle Pickett. Nobody in the chat room had
heard of Ms. Pickett.

''It struck me that we were ignorant of the scope of violence against our
community,'' Ms. Smith said.

She started a web project, ''Remembering Our Dead,'' shortly before the 1999
film ''Boys Don't Cry'' created broad awareness of such violence by dramatizing
the real-life story of a transgender man, Brandon Teena, who had been killed.

Ms. Smith's web project grew into the International Transgender Day of
Remembrance, which is observed every Nov. 20 across the country and around the
world. Ms. Keisling calls it ''our sacred holiday.''

By the turn of the millennium, many thought it was time to professionalize the
all-volunteer transgender movement. Ms. Frye was increasingly representing
transgender clients in name-change and discrimination cases, merging her
political and professional work. She was also starting to run out of steam, she
said.

''And then Mara came along,'' she said, referring to Ms. Keisling, who financed
the creation of the National Center for Transgender Equality in Washington in
2003. ''She had the courage to move to D.C. My wife didn't want to, and all my
political chits were here. So there was kind of a passing of the baton.''

Barriers Fall

In 2003, George W. Bush became the first president to welcome an openly
transgender person into the White House.

It happened during a reunion for his Yale class of 1968. Making her way through
the president's receiving line, a woman in an evening gown extended her hand.
''Hello, George,'' she said. ''I guess the last time we spoke, I was still
living as a man.''

Mr. Bush smiled and graciously responded, ''And now you're you,'' according to
the woman, Petra Leilani Akwai.

Most of the big transgender advocacy groups started during the Bush years: the
equality center, the Transgender Law Center, the Sylvia Rivera Law Project, the
Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, and the Center of Excellence for
Transgender Health, among others. But they did not push for federal policy
changes during Mr. Bush's presidency, despite the momentum that was building for
their cause. On local and state levels, they were winning new laws protecting
transgender people from discrimination, and they had persuaded the major gay and
lesbian groups -- even the Human Rights Campaign -- to take up their struggle.
Still, they feared a backlash.

And they were heartbroken in 2008 when the Human Rights Campaign breached their
détente, once again making a political compromise to exclude transgender people
from the federal Employment Nondiscrimination Act.

This time, though, Ms. Frye said, ''the tide had finally changed.''

''The gay community went wild,'' she continued. ''Every state equality group was
up in arms.''

When President Obama took office, advocates presented him with a long wish list
of proposed changes in federal policy. And despite an initial reticence about
publicly expressing support for transgender people, his administration opened
its doors to them.

''Dozens of us have been at the White House dozens of times for meetings,'' Ms.
Keisling said.

In October 2009, a few months after Chaz Bono -- the only child of the singers
Sonny and Cher -- came out as a transgender man, Mr. Obama signed a hate crimes
law, the first federal legislation to recognize and protect transgender people.
That required an act of Congress, but most of what followed were rule changes.

The State Department took a first big step, eliminating an outmoded requirement
of sex reassignment surgery for people who sought to change gender on their
passports.

Following the lead of the courts, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
then ruled that antitransgender bias was a form of sex discrimination under
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.

Agency after agency, on federal, state and local levels, ordered explicit
protections for transgender people and, in some cases, mandated insurance
coverage for transition-related health care. Gay and civil rights groups
increasingly fought transgender discrimination in court, sometimes with Justice
Department support. Legally at least, barriers started falling away.

In 2013, after over a decade of badgering from transgender advocates, the
psychiatric establishment formally reclassified gender identity disorder as a
''condition'' called gender dysphoria, removing the stigma of mental illness.
The next year, Chad Griffin, president of the Human Rights Campaign, issued a
formal apology, saying, ''H.R.C. has done wrong by the transgender community,''
and pledging ''a new chapter.''

In the court of public opinion, with the marriage equality campaign moving
toward success, a climate of acceptance was growing and extending from sexuality
to gender identity. ''Suddenly people liked us,'' Ms. Keisling said.

It helped that the movement was growing younger and more diverse. In 2013, a
website called ''We Happy Trans'' published its inaugural ''Trans 100'' list,
which included veterans like Ms. Frye but also new stars, like Laverne Cox, 31,
a black transgender actress featured in the Netflix television series ''Orange
Is the New Black.''

To be sure, as Ms. Cox often emphasizes, life remains excruciatingly hard for
many transgender people who continue to face discrimination, hostility and
violence in many families, neighborhoods, schools, workplaces, police precincts
and prisons. Rates of attempted suicide, H.I.V. infection, unemployment, poverty
and homelessness are exceptionally high, especially for transgender women of
color.

Still, seen through Ms. Frye's long lens, the progress is undeniable.

After more than four decades with her wife -- ''and even though I had hair on my
face when Trish and I married'' -- Ms. Frye exhaled deeply when the Supreme
Court legalized same-sex marriage, she said.

''It's always been in the back of our minds all these years, that somebody could
challenge us,'' she said.

In her private law practice, which she maintains alongside the part-time
judgeship, she exclusively represents transgender people now, and is taking ever
more children through the process of changing their names and gender markers.
''Their parents call me,'' she said. ''Who'd have imagined?''

She does not miss the intensity of the struggle, she said. ''I've enjoyed my
60s. I haven't had to fight.''

Though she watches the movement's building momentum with occasional incredulity
-- ''Even the military!'' she exclaimed, referring to the announcement in July
that the Pentagon plans to lift its ban on service by openly transgender people
-- she has been waiting with impatience for society to catch up with her.

''I keep wondering what took her so long,'' she said about Caitlyn Jenner's
introduction to the world. ''She could have done a lot of good.''

New Normal

One night this summer, in a basement courtroom at the Houston Municipal
Courthouse, Ms. Frye emerged from chambers, zipping up her robe over her khakis
and telling a smattering of defendants, ''Don't get up.''

Under a low ceiling, she settled on the bench, between the American and the Lone
Star flags, in front of a framed photograph of Mayor Parker, who fought back
tears at Ms. Frye's swearing-in in 2010.

Chatting with the clerks, the judge questioned the air-conditioning -- ''Is it
hotter than a firecracker in here, or is it just me?'' -- and described how she
lost 70 pounds over the last few years, changing her diet and working out daily
in her fitness room (at the same modest house that was egged decades earlier).

For the next several hours, she dealt amiably and efficiently with a sleepy
stream of mostly sheepish traffic violators.

''Hawkins,'' she said, summoning a jaunty man wearing earrings. ''How are you?''

''I'm doing pretty well, judge. Yourself?'' Mr. Hawkins replied.

''I'm terrific,'' Ms. Frye replied. ''You were supposed to bring $279 plus your
license plus proof of insurance.''

Mr. Hawkins said he had run into a ''small problem.'' He was unable to get a new
license because he owed $2,200 in surcharges to the city.

''I hope you're not driving now,'' Judge Frye said, holding up her hand. ''Don't
tell me. Don't tell me.''

She gave him a 60-day extension, and he thanked her, saying he had never gotten
one that long before.

''Well, you ain't getting any more,'' she said.

If prosaic authority is the summit of normalcy, then Ms. Frye, who once
harangued a federal official for treating her like ''a freak,'' has reached it.

''Whatever normal means,'' she added.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/us/transgender-judge-phyllis-fryes-early-trans
formative-journey.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FIRST, PHILLIP: Today Phyllis Frye is a Houston judge, the
first judge in the nation who was openly transgender. In 1966, though, she was
still Phillip, seen here as a cadet at Texas A&M. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON
THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
1962: Phyllis Frye, then Phillip, sporting his Eagle Scout uniform.
1981: A newly minted lawyer. Early in law school she was shunned.
1989: With Phil Donahue. She was on an episode of his talk show.
1993: Speaking at a Washington march for gay rights.
2006: Discussing transgender and gay communities in Houston.
2010: Ms. Frye, part-time judge, also maintains a legal practice.
Renée Richards, a transgender tennis pro, in New Jersey in 1976. She won the
right to play as a woman in the United States Open. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANNY
MILLAN/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A18)
At right, Christine Jorgensen, who had gender reassignment surgery in Denmark in
the 1950s, and, at far right, Transvestia magazine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ART EDGER/NEW
YORK DAILY NEWS ARCHIVE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A18-A19)
 In 2013, Ms. Frye made a ''Trans 100'' list alongside figures such as Laverne
Cox, an actress from Netflix's ''Orange Is the New Black.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSGENDER PERSONS (91%); ENGINEERING (88%); EQUAL PROTECTION (86%);
GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL WORKERS (74%); LGBT RIGHTS
(73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); DISCRIMINATION LAW (72%); TRACK & FIELD (72%);
CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); DISMISSALS (69%);
PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (69%); VANDALISM (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION
(56%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: CAITLYN (BRUCE) JENNER (94%); LAVERNE COX (79%); DIANE SAWYER (72%)

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Drug War, and a Battle for Viewers

BYLINE: By JEREMY EGNER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1171 words


''Say yes to your life,'' Nancy Reagan commands near the end of the first
episode of Netflix's new series ''Narcos.'' It's a moment from the famous ''Just
Say No'' speech that she delivered with her husband, President Ronald Reagan, in
1986. ''And when it comes to drugs and alcohol,'' she continues, ''just say
no.''

Cut to a drug dealer kneeling in a Colombian field who pleads ''No no no no,
Pablo no,'' before being shot in the head.

It's a sequence that encapsulates both the style and substance of ''Narcos,'' a
series about the bloody rise of the Medellín cartel in Colombia in the 1970s and
'80s. Shot in Colombia and produced by the Brazilian filmmaker José Padilha, who
also directed the first two episodes, the show mixes news clips with fictional
portrayals of historical figures. It recounts the birth of cocaine trafficking
and the at times morally ambiguous efforts to fight it by authorities in both
Colombia and the United States. ''Pablo,'' of course, is Pablo Escobar, the drug
kingpin, here played with simmering menace by the Brazilian actor Wagner Moura.

For Netflix, ''Narcos,'' large parts of which are subtitled, represents yet
another ambitious, international undertaking as the streaming service seeks new
subscribers outside of the United States. Currently available in over 50
countries, the service aims to be in 200 by the end of 2016, and in the past
year it has added expansive international productions like (the mostly admired)
''Sense8'' and (the much less so) ''Marco Polo'' to its lineup. (''Club de
Cuervos,'' Netflix's first Spanish-language show, debuted earlier this month,
and ''Marseille,'' a French-language series, will go into production soon.)

In Mr. Padilha, who developed the series with Eric Newman, an executive
producer, Netflix has partnered with a former documentarian (''Bus 174'') who
kept his didactic edge when he moved into narrative films. His ''Elite Squad''
movies, Brazilian blockbusters that starred Mr. Moura as an ethically erratic
police commander, offered an entertaining but cynical -- and controversial--
look at corruption. (The depictions of police brutality in ''Elite Squad'' riled
both law enforcement officials, who found them unfair, and many residents, who
thought they glorified violent cops.)

''Narcos,'' written by Chris Brancato, Carlo Bernard and Doug Miro, is similarly
pointed. It implicates traffickers like Escobar, depicted as a megalomaniac
smuggler who stumbled upon a product with profits as large as his self-image,
but also an American drug policy that declared ''war'' on the suppliers without
doing much to address the demand.

''Once you construe a 'war' on drugs, you see it as a police matter -- something
you're going to handle with weapons,'' Mr. Padilha said. ''You're gonna put a
lot of people in jail and you're gonna kill a lot of people.''

The men charged with stopping Escobar are Steve Murphy and Javier Peña,
portrayed by Boyd Holbrook and Pedro Pascal (Oberyn Martell to ''Game of
Thrones'' fans). The characters are based on the actual Drug Enforcement
Administration agents who helped Colombian police track Escobar, who was
ultimately killed in 1993.

Though ''Narcos'' is largely fictional -- drug dealers aren't big on
documentation, Mr. Padilha noted -- the broad strokes are historically accurate
and based on voluminous research as well as input from the agents, now retired.
Despite the large amount of historical and political context delivered in each
episode (primarily by Mr. Holbrook's omnipresent narration), ''Narcos'' is
hardly preachy -- the premiere episode, especially, channels ''Goodfellas'' and
the ''Elite Squad'' films, offering a fast-paced, graphically violent tour of an
often savage subculture.

An international cast includes performers from Brazil, Argentina, Chile and
Colombia, several of whom spent time in Bogotá during its violent nadir in the
late 1980s and early '90s. Juan Pablo Raba, who plays Gustavo Gaviria, Escobar's
cousin andclosest confidante, had an uncle who was killed in the 1989 bombing of
Avianca Airlines Flight 203, which Escobar planned to try to kill a presidential
candidate.

More broadly, the Latin American actors in the cast relished the opportunity to
tell the Medellín story through a native prism. Despite the centrality of the
D.E.A. to the story, ''Narcos'' is ''not going to be about American good guys
who go to a poor culture to save these poor people,'' Mr. Moura said. ''You're
going to see the Colombian heroes of the story.''

This perspective is part of what sets ''Narcos'' apart from other drug war
critiques like ''Traffic,'' Mr. Padilha said. Shot primarily in Bogotá, much of
the show features subtitled Spanish dialogue.

Subtitled shows are thought to be less appealing to American audiences. But
Netflix didn't balk at the Spanish dialogue in ''Narcos,'' said Cindy Holland,
the company's vice president for original series, because ''we know the audience
exists'' for such fare based on viewership of the service's foreign films.
(Netflix, like other streaming sites, refuses to reveal viewership numbers.)
''Part of the story is this clash of cultures, and it was important to reflect
the reality that these people were speaking their native language,'' she said.

One big exception: the show's star. Mr. Moura didn't speak Spanish when he
signed on to play Escobar, having grown up in Portuguese-speaking Brazil. (He
assumed the dialogue would be in Spanish-accented English.) He moved to Medellín
several months before shooting and started to learn the language, which he
called ''the hardest thing I've ever done,'' though he didn't see any other
choice.

''I always thought those World War II films with German people speaking English
with German accents was weird,'' he said.

For the actual D.E.A. agents, ''Narcos'' represents another crack at a story
they felt was poorly told in reports like ''Killing Pablo,'' the 2001 book about
the hunt for Escobar, which Mr. Murphy said implied, inaccurately, that he and
his colleagues collaborated with Colombian vigilantes. As technical consultants
on the show, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Peña spent a week telling the writers stories
and advised on details. Mr. Murphy, who hadn't been to Colombia since 1995, made
an eye-opening trip to Bogotá with his wife and two daughters they adopted there
to visit the set earlier this year. The place of military patrols and regular
gunfire that he and his wife remembered was long gone, replaced by a safe,
inviting and modern city.

''We thought: 'Wait a minute. Did the plane land in the wrong city?' '' he said.

Mr. Padilha hopes the Medellín story will be only the first chapter in a
multiseason series that tracks the illegal drug trade through the succession of
cartels that have controlled the supply to the American market, up to the
present day troubles in Mexico. ''You just renew the gangsters and play out the
same drama,'' he said.

Added Mr. Holbrook, ''We all know that Pablo Escobar is not around anymore, but
cocaine sure is.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/television/netflix-looks-to-narcos-for-a-
new-audience.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Wagner Moura as Pablo Escobar in the Netflix series
''Narcos.'' Above from left, Pedro Pascal and Boyd Holbrook in the show.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL DAZA/NETFLIX)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); DRUG POLICY
(89%); FILM (88%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS
& BIOTECHNOLOGY REGULATION & POLICY (76%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (76%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (75%); SHOOTINGS (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%);
CARTELS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); ETHICS (72%); HISTORY (72%); US
PRESIDENTS (71%); COCAINE (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%);
POLICE MISCONDUCT (68%); CORRUPTION (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (96%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (96%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(96%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (78%)

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and JILL
P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 118 words


Park Slope Co-op

$599,000

BROOKLYN 759 President Street, #1G

A one-bedroom one-bath unit with a living/dining room, an open kitchen, three
exposures and a balcony in a gated 31-unit, pet-friendly co-op building with a
common roof deck, storage and laundry facilities and a live-in superintendent.
Kristina Leonetti, Corcoran Group (917) 856-0601; corcoran.com. Open house
Sunday, 1 to 2:30 p.m.

MAINTENANCE $740

PROS Near express subway lines and Park Slope's cultural center, this quiet unit
has clean lines, high ceilings, a charming balcony overlooking gardens, oversize
windows, a renovated kitchen with a dishwasher, a bathroom with a window, and
floor-to-ceiling storage.

CONS There is no doorman.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMON HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (88%)

COMPANY: FRIENDLY CO LTD (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and JILL
P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 112 words


Bayville Waterfront

$1,799,000

NASSAU 9 Creek Road

A four-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath hilltop house, built in 2010, with a
trellised veranda, a full basement, four patios, an outdoor fireplace and a
two-car attached garage on an 0.81-acre lot. Eloise Halpern, Daniel Gale
Sotheby's International Realty (516) 455-8187; danielgale.com

TAXES $33,683 a year

PROS This house has an open floor plan with views of Mill Neck Creek. The master
suite has a separate yoga/sitting room and French doors to a balcony. The
kitchen is voluminous with a tray ceiling, a center island and granite-topped
cabinetry on the perimeter.

CONS The driveway is steep. The backyard is a hill.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHY KMONICEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Huge Protest Held in Malaysia Against Premier

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; Khang Tsung Hui contributed reporting from Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 720 words


BANGKOK --  Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Malaysia defied police orders
on Saturday, massing in the capital in a display of anger at the government of
Prime Minister Najib Razak, who has been accused of corruption involving
hundreds of millions of dollars.

The demonstration in central Kuala Lumpur, which had been planned for weeks, was
declared illegal by the Malaysian police, and on Friday the government went as
far as to pass a decree banning the yellow clothing worn by the protesters.

But the demonstrators, who represent a broad coalition of civic organizations in
Malaysia, including prominent lawyers, asserted their right to protest on
Saturday. Among other issues, they are angered at the transfer of 2.6 billion
ringgit, about $630 million, into the personal bank accounts of Mr. Najib.

The government has acknowledged that Mr. Najib received the money in 2013 and
said it was a donation from undisclosed Arab royalty. Opposition groups have
ridiculed the government's explanations for the cash transfer, citing a Wall
Street Journal report that said investigators had tracked the money to companies
linked to a sovereign wealth fund headed by Mr. Najib, called 1Malaysia
Development Berhad, or 1MDB.

One group of protesters on Saturday carried the image of a giant check in the
amount of 2.6 billion ringgit, with a sign that read, ''You really think we are
stupid?''

The group organizing the protest goes by the name Bersih, which means clean in
Malay.

A former prime minister from Mr. Najib's party, Mahathir Mohamad, was among
those who joined the protest, underlining the split in the party. Mr. Mahathir's
wife, Siti Hasmah Ali, told reporters, ''this is people power,'' a paradoxical
phrase given the sometimes brutal repression of protests during Mr. Mahathir's
rule. Among the protesters were a large number of Chinese Malaysians, a minority
that in recent elections has largely turned against the government.

Calls for Mr. Najib to resign have come both from within his party, chiefly from
Mr. Mahathir and his allies, and from the opposition. One junior member of Mr.
Najib's party, the United Malays National Organization, filed a lawsuit against
Mr. Najib on Friday asking for details of how the money was spent.

The government has been aggressive in seeking to plug leaks from the
investigation and seems to be trying to slow it down. In late July, after
reports of the transfers to his accounts surfaced, Mr. Najib fired the country's
attorney general and shuffled his cabinet, removing the deputy prime minister,
who had called for further investigations.

José Ugaz, the chairman of Transparency International, an international
anticorruption organization that is holding a conference in Malaysia this week,
said the government was ''manipulating'' Malaysia's anticorruption agency and
accused the government of stonewalling the investigation.

''It is clear that there is a push by the government to not allow this
investigation to go forward,'' Mr. Ugaz said.

''It is not really believable that all this huge amount of money came as a
donation into the personal bank account of the prime minister,'' he said. ''Even
if it is true, it is absolutely improper that a prime minister received such an
amount of money from a secret source. Donation for what?''

Mr. Najib was initially scheduled to be the headline speaker at the
anticorruption conference, titled ''Ending Impunity,'' which starts Wednesday.
But as of Saturday, the prime minister's office had not confirmed that he would
attend, Mr. Ugaz said.

Mr. Najib's troubles are much broader than the scandal over the sovereign wealth
fund and the bank transfers.

Malaysia's currency, the ringgit, has lost a third of its value over the past
year, and prices of the country's largest commodities -- oil, rubber and palm
oil -- have plummeted, severely reducing government revenues. A sales tax
introduced earlier this year has been deeply unpopular. The difficult economic
times have coincided with reports of lavish spending by Mr. Najib's wife.

Mr. Najib has also come under fire over the curtailing of civil liberties,
including increased use of the country's Sedition Act to quell dissent, and the
jailing in February of Anwar Ibrahim, the country's opposition leader, which
further weakened a fractured opposition.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/asia/malaysia-protests-najib-razak-1mdb.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters gathered in Kuala Lumpur on Saturday despite a police
ban on the demonstration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%);
INVESTIGATIONS (87%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); LITIGATION
(76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL
ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: NAJIB RAZAK (92%)

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (88%)

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Standstill

BYLINE: By SAM ANDERSON

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIRST WORDS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1306 words


In normal everyday life, time is a liquid that flows around us all unceasingly
-- a kind of existential syrup. During election season, this syrup is captured,
boiled down, dehydrated and separated into its constituent grains -- grains that
we like to call, without fail, ''moments.'' Thus Donald Trump is (according to
The New York Times) ''the man of the moment,'' and although he was briefly
''out-­Foxed'' (according to The Belfast Telegraph) ''by a Megyn moment'' (Jim
Rutenberg's coinage in this magazine), he went on to recover with a ''big,
symbolic moment'' (according to Mark Halperin on the ''Today'' show) at the Iowa
State Fair. Hillary Clinton, meanwhile, might be having an ''Al Capone moment''
with regard to the legality of her private email server (The Washington Post),
but she still found time to have a ''celebrity moment'' (The Times again) by
taking a selfie with Kim Kardashian and Kanye West. No nexus of events is too
large or heterogeneous -- no geopolitical weather too swirlingly turbulent -- to
avoid being reduced to the shorthand of the moment.

As the election grinds on, the names attached to such moments will change. Marco
Rubio might succeed Trump as the official man of the moment; Al Gore might have
his Lazarus moment. The only thing we can be certain of is that the moments will
arrive, incessantly, and that when they do, they will be collected, labeled
neatly and displayed for public consumption. We are living in the moment moment.

Modern media-­saturated humans didn't invent the concept of the moment, of
course. Our obsession with it probably goes back, as most modern obsessions do,
to the ancient Greeks. The Greeks had at least two different notions of time:
chronos (the vast, inhuman, infinite stretch of time) and kairos (the moment). A
boring old hour -- 15 degrees on the sundial, 60 soulless ticks of the clock --
is a little patch of chronos. Kairos, on the other hand, is where the magic
happens: those decisive instants in which the world suddenly changes. Kairos is
significant time, charged time, heavenly time. It transcends calendars, soaks
everything in meaning.

Life requires both chronos and kairos. Most of the juice, however, is in kairos.
Humans are addicted to it. We want our magic moments. And we get them. The
heroes of our action movies dramatize it. The singers of our songs melodize it.
Evangelists preach it. Advertisers pitch it. The modern news media is a kairos
factory; everything must always be at stake. And political speech, especially
near elections, is all about declaring that we live in a special moment in which
everything depends on our very next choice. Back in 2008, in the days of Hope
and Change, Barack Obama was a serious kairos-­monger. ''We meet at one of those
defining moments,'' he said in accepting the Democratic presidential nomination.
''This moment, this moment, this election is our chance to keep, in the 21st
century, the American promise alive.''

But then things turned out to be a little more complex. Governing tends not to
be about decisive moments. Most of the time it's pure chronos: ugly
clock-­eating compromise and negotiation and failure. The big story of Obama's
presidency has been the erosion of kairos by chronos: a national education in
the dominance of grinding, unglamorous time.

The political world's obsession with the moment can also be found in the way we
talk about culture. In cultural criticism, it is often no longer enough to
simply analyze a book or a film or a song. We have to justify our interest by
declaring that the product in question is having a moment. Benedict Cumberbatch,
Marseille, ''American Sniper,'' Sweden, Amy Schumer, Compton -- these are just a
few of the entities that have recently, apparently, had moments. Then the critic
must go one step further: to explain an even larger phenomenon, the ''cultural
moment.'' As Buzzfeed recently put it: ''Granny hair, granny panties, grannies
all over popular media -- what does the visibility of older women and the
fashions associated with them suggest about our current cultural moment?''

What, exactly, is a cultural moment? How long does it last? Who participates in
it? Who on earth gets to decide? Can you marshal literally anything that has
happened in the last 10 years, or 10 months? What are the parameters? Is there a
minimum Q rating? Who has to experience a thing, be aware of it, find
satisfaction (or prestige) in discussing it? And how do we distinguish kairos
from chronos -- a moment from an ordinary shred of time? How do we distinguish a
meaningful, fateful, crucial moment from all the other moments that fall all
over the place like bread crumbs out of an overturned toaster?

A moment was, at one time, an actual temporal unit: 1/40 of an hour, or roughly
90 seconds -- the smallest discernible increment on a sundial. (Hence the
sundial inscription, ''Ab hoc momento pendet aeternitas,'' or, ''On this moment
hangs eternity.'') Today, however, 90 seconds seems long -- a container big
enough to hold many, many, many moments. Life in the 21st century revolves, more
and more, around time-­slicing: switching quickly among many targets of
attention -- different screens, different windows stretched across those
screens, different tabs open in each of those windows, apps nesting inside other
apps. Cultural producers no longer seek to harvest long stretches of our
attention but the teeniest little bits of it. Not hours or minutes but moments.
We emerge from our holes of focused distraction with something like a time
hangover: unmoored from history, alienated from chronos.

This is where the moment comes in. We master things by labeling them. Numbers,
categories and hierarchies are ways of moving and storing the chaos of the world
-- mental technologies every bit as fundamental as levers and blades and
buckets. (One of the world's earliest forms of writing, back in Mesopotamia --
the revolutionary scratches that turned us into literate creatures -- was purely
informational: receipts, inventories.) A moment is the atomic unit of narrative.

''One tragedy of the human condition,'' the sociologist James Beniger, who was
an expert on the information society, wrote in his 1989 masterpiece, ''The
Control Revolution,'' ''is that each of us lives and dies with little hint of
even the most profound transformations of our society and our species that play
themselves out in some small part through our own existence.'' Confident
declarations that define the cultural moment are a way to ameliorate this
tragedy. If we can't understand the era, perhaps we can understand the moment.
It seems so much less daunting.

And yet it can't possibly be true that we are correctly diagnosing, 12 times
every day, some serious new paradigm in society. That is not the nature of time,
or of humans moving through time. None of us are smart enough to have such deep
insights so frequently. Mostly what we're doing is making the gesture of
insight, the gesture of mastery. We are like astronomers looking at fireflies
and proclaiming, in their flickering patterns, new constellations every 30
seconds.

When my wife was a child, her stepfather had a habit of declaring -- out of
nowhere -- that their family was experi­encing a moment. ''Let's all remember
this moment!'' he would say. These declarations could come when they were
watching a sunset or eating ice cream or loading groceries into the car; he
seemed to declare the memorable moments almost at random. I recently asked my
wife how many of these moments, now decades old, she remembers today.

''None,'' she said. ''I only remember him saying that we should remember them.''

The declaration of the moment turns out to have been the moment itself.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/moment-is-having-a-moment.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) (MM16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES
(74%); CLASSICS (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); SELFIES (52%); ACTION &
ADVENTURE FILMS (50%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (57%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (55%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); DONALD TRUMP (56%); KIM
KARDASHIAN (51%); KANYE WEST (50%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dead Reckoning

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE.

Scott Shane is a national-security reporter for The Times. His book ''Objective
Troy: A Terrorist, a President, and the Rise of the Drone,'' will be published
in September.This article is adapted from Scott Shane's forthcoming book,
''Objective Troy: A Terrorist, a President, and the Rise of the Drone,'' to be
published in September by Tim Duggan Books.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FEATURE; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 5350 words


Type ''Anwar al-Awlaki'' into YouTube's search bar, and you get 40,000 hits.
Most of them bring up the earnest, smiling face and placid voice of the first
American citizen to be hunted and killed without trial by his own government
since the Civil War. Here is Awlaki on what makes a good marriage; on the nature
of paradise; on Jesus Christ, considered a prophet by Muslims; on tolerance; on
the holy month of Ramadan; and, more quirkily, on ''obesity and overeating in
Islam.'' Here is Awlaki, or Sheikh Anwar, as his many admirers still call him,
easily mixing Quranic Arabic with American English in chapters from his 53-CD
series on the life of the Prophet Muhammad, once a best seller among
English-speaking Muslims.

But in the same queue of videos is material of an altogether different nature.
You will find Awlaki explaining why you should never trust a non-Muslim; how the
United States is at war with Islam; why Nidal Hasan, who fatally shot 13 people
at Fort Hood, and Umar Farouk Abulmutallab, who tried to blow up an airliner
over Detroit, were heroes. There is, finally, his culminating ''Call to Jihad,''
recorded in 2010 when he was already on President Obama's kill list and on the
run in Yemen's tribal badlands. In it, with the confidence and poise of a
YouTube handyman explaining how to caulk a window, he details just why, exactly,
it is every Muslim's religious duty to kill Americans.

This is the digital legacy of Awlaki, who was killed in a drone strike in Yemen
in September 2011. Addressing a V.F.W. convention in Pittsburgh last month,
President Obama championed the counterterrorism record of his administration.
''I've shown,'' he said, ''I will not hesitate to use force to protect our
nation, including from the threat of terrorism.'' He listed some of the
terrorists killed on his watch. ''Anwar al-Awlaki, a leader of the Al Qaeda
affiliate in Yemen -- gone,'' Obama said to applause.

The government has a portentous euphemism -- ''removed from the battlefield'' --
for the targeted killing of terrorists. But Awlaki has by no means been removed
from the most important battlefield in any ideological conflict, the battlefield
of ideas. Five days before the president spoke, Mohammod Youssuf Abdulazeez, a
troubled 24-year-old electrical engineer, opened fire at two military
installations in Chattanooga, Tenn., killing four Marines and a sailor. F.B.I.
investigators who examined his computer discovered that he had been watching
Awlaki videos in the weeks before the shootings.

They could not have been surprised. In May, two men shot up a Prophet Muhammad
cartoon contest in Garland, Tex. One used Awlaki's familiar portrait, with
wire-rimmed glasses and bushy beard, as his profile picture on Twitter; the
other gave Awlaki CDs to his mother, who described the assassination of the
cleric in 2011 as a turning point in her son's radicalization. For
counterterrorism investigators, such discoveries have become routine: Check the
suspect's laptop, and Awlaki will be prominent in the download and search
history. This has held true in dozens of cases. Shannon Conley, a 19-year-old
Colorado convert to Islam, left behind a pile of Awlaki DVDs before trying to
fly off to Syria to join the Islamic State last year. In June, when the F.B.I.
arrested several New Jersey men whom they charged with talking about staging an
attack, agents said they found that Awlaki came up regularly in their
social-media chatter. Officials said one bragged that he had watched ''almost
all of his lectures'' and said, ''America killed him,'' to which his
co-defendant typed back, ''Then Amreeka shale burn.''

The Tsarnaevs, Chechen-born brothers who set off two pressure-cooker bombs at
the Boston Marathon in 2013, owed part of their ideological training and their
bomb-making skills to Awlaki's online work. ''Listen to Anwar al-Awlaki's ...
here after series,'' Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the younger brother, tweeted a few weeks
before the attack, ''you will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge.'' Chérif
Kouachi, one of the Algerian-­French brothers who massacred the staff of the
satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris in January, told a TV station in his
last public words before being shot by the police that ''Sheikh Anwar
al-Awlaki'' had sponsored the attack. The list of plots and attacks influenced
by Awlaki goes on and on.

In fact, Awlaki's pronouncements seem to carry greater authority today than when
he was living, because America killed him. On Sept. 30, 2011, the day that Obama
announced Awlaki's death, many Islamic websites attached the word ''martyrdom''
to this news. Ten days later Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, Awlaki's Yemen
branch, confirmed the death: ''America killed Sheikh Anwar, may Allah have mercy
on him, but it could not kill his thoughts. The martyrdom of the Sheikh is a new
and renewing life for his thoughts and style.'' It was a self-serving claim, but
nearly four years later, it is hard to dismiss.

Awlaki's collected works move seamlessly from praising Islam's ancient heroes to
calling for slaughter in the name of Allah. And this rich afterlife on the web
raises disturbing questions: Is Awlaki as dangerous -- perhaps even more
dangerous -- dead than alive? Was there a way to undermine his message without
giving it the gloss of martyrdom? To answer these questions, which have
implications for the broader American strategy against terrorist groups, it is
necessary to understand Awlaki's own evolution, including his interaction with
American authorities, a story that has long been misunderstood.

Some government agencies have tried to boil the process of radicalization down
to a few clear-cut and inevitable stages, but in reality, the journey to
extremism is a messy, human affair that defies such predictability. This was
true of Awlaki's acolytes; it was also true of the great radicalizer himself.
Before Awlaki could talk anyone else into violent jihad, he had to talk himself
into it. One giant step came as the unintended result of surveillance by the
United States government.

At midnight on Sept. 14, 2001, Awlaki, then a young Yemeni-American imam at the
prominent Dar al-Hijrah mosque in Falls Church, Va., finished a long day by
answering an email from his younger brother about the terrorist attacks of a few
days before. ''I personally think it was horrible,'' he wrote to Ammar, a
college student in New Mexico at the time. ''I am very upset about it.'' He
added, ''The media are all over us.'' Anwar was disconcerted, but perhaps also
pleased that an onslaught of reporters had turned his Friday prayers, or jummah,
into a circus. ''At jummah today we had ABC, NBC, CBS and The Washington Post.''
He closed on a positive note, hinting at a noble purpose, to be sure, but also
displaying a trace of personal ambition: ''I hope we can use this for the good
of all of us.''

Though the country was in mourning, a sense of defiant unity emerged. A
non-Muslim neighbor of Dar al-Hijrah organized a candlelight vigil around the
building to show solidarity with the mosque. Roughly 80 residents of a nearby
apartment building sent over a note saying, ''We want your congregation to know
that we welcome you in this community.'' Journalists, hunting for an
authoritative voice from the Muslim community, began to pass regularly under the
mosque's grand marble arches or to gather in Awlaki's modest family home. He
denounced the 9/11 attacks but in the same breath would criticize America's
record in the Middle East. Reporters were impressed. The New York Times wrote
that Awlaki, just 30, was being ''held up as a new generation of Muslim leader
capable of merging East and West.'' He relished the spotlight. He seemed to be
quite self-consciously auditioning for a dual role: explainer of Islam to
America and of America to Muslims. ''We came here to build, not to destroy,'' he
declared from his pulpit. ''We are the bridge between America and one billion
Muslims worldwide.''

Awlaki's rise was a rapid one. Born in New Mexico in 1971, he lived in the
United States until he was 7, while his father was in graduate school studying
agriculture, then moved to Yemen with his family before returning for college at
19. At Colorado State, he was soon bored by his major in civil engineering and
didn't last long at the entry-level engineering job that followed. But he had
discovered a knack for preaching, taking turns with other students and
professors to lead prayers at the little mosque just off campus. He quickly
landed a part-time position at the Denver Islamic Society. As an imam there and
later in San Diego, he won over diverse, sometimes fractious communities. Older
immigrants were captivated by his respectful manner and his bilingual,
bicultural charisma. ''He had a beautiful tongue,'' said one leader of the
Denver mosque, a Palestinian-American in his 60s who did not want to be named
praising a man who later became notorious. ''He had a nice voice. He had earned
the knowledge he needed.'' Young people, turned off by older imams who spoke
English with heavy accents and knew little about American ways, found Awlaki
approachable. ''He lit up when he was with the youth,'' Jamal Ali, 40, an
airport driver who prayed at the San Diego mosque, told me.

He was also driven, a young man determined to make his mark. Among the books
Awlaki devoured was Stephen R. Covey's 1989 best seller, ''The Seven Habits of
Highly Effective People.'' In San Diego, he accepted a growing number of
invitations to speak outside his mosque. He found a publisher to sell CD sets of
his lectures through Islamic bookstores and online sales; these would attract a
steadily growing audience over the next few years. But in 2000, at age 29, as he
contemplated leaving San Diego, he was still not entirely certain about career
paths. His father, Nasser al-Awlaki, who had earned his doctorate in the United
States and served as Yemen's agriculture minister and as a university
chancellor, was dubious about a clerical career for his son. Awlaki bent to his
father's wishes and pursued a doctorate in education at George Washington
University, agreeing to serve as a chaplain there. A job as the head of a
department at Sana University in Yemen's capital awaited him if he wanted it,
his father said. As it happened, while he was studying for his Ph.D., Dar
al-Hijrah, a far bigger and more prestigious mosque than the one in San Diego,
was looking for a young imam, hoping, in part, to compete with a radical
storefront mosque for the attention of local Muslim youth. Awlaki got the job;
he seemed full of optimism. He told his father that he supported Bush in the
2000 election and hoped his new job might get him an invitation to the White
House.

That didn't happen, but Awlaki quickly made his mark in Washington. He was
invited to give the sermon one Friday in the United States Capitol. A team
filming a documentary on Muhammad captured the moment. He lectured at a local
institute that was training Muslim chaplains for the military. His reputation,
spreading through his CDs, established him on the Islamic speaking circuit. With
his Yemeni wife, Gihan, and their three young children, he explored Washington's
museums and restaurants and settled into suburban life.

On the morning of 9/11, Awlaki was returning from a West Coast visit and learned
of the attacks while riding in a taxi to the mosque from Reagan National
Airport. He was soon caught up in the sudden, panicky American appetite for
information about Islam. He was quoted regularly in the national media. He made
a favorable impression at the interfaith forums that became popular in the
Washington area. ''He struck me in his personality as a gentle man, very well
read and intelligent,'' said the Rev. Gerry Creedon, a priest at a Catholic
parish in Arlington, Va. Simon Amiel, an organizer with the campus Jewish
organization Hillel, recalled Awlaki's speaking at George Washington University
on the parallel traditions of Islam and Judaism. Amiel found him ''cordial and
friendly.''

At his mosque, Awlaki argued for the unique position of American Muslims. ''Yes,
we disagree with a lot of issues when it comes to the foreign policy of the
United States,'' he said in one sermon caught on camera. ''We are very
conservative when it comes to family values. We are against the moral decay that
we see in the society. But we also cherish a lot of the values that are in
America. Freedom is one of them; opportunity is another. And that's why there is
more appreciation among the American Muslims compared to the Muslims in other
parts of the world.''

It was a paean to conservative social values and American exceptionalism that
would not have been out of place at a Republican National Convention. But as
with many preachers who thunder against ''moral decay,'' there was a side of
Awlaki that neither his admiring congregation nor the national media were
allowed to see.

On Dec. 13, 2001, a mild but blustery day, Awlaki drove his white Dodge Caravan
across the Potomac into Washington and parked west of Dupont Circle. Such solo
drives had become routine for him, though the destinations varied; sometimes it
was a motel in a rundown part of the city, sometimes it was more upscale lodging
in the Virginia suburbs. On this occasion, it was the Marriott Residence Inn on
P Street toward the end of the holy month of Ramadan. A few weeks earlier, in an
online chat accompanying a Washington Post video, he explained that Muslims
abstained from sexual activity during Ramadan between sunrise and sunset. It was
2:30 p.m. when he made his way to Room 1010, where a young woman from Texas
awaited him.

He was a computer engineer, Awlaki told her, born in India and now living in
California. He was polite and apologized for sneezing so much, explaining that
he was suffering from hay fever. He handed over $220, and she performed oral sex
on him. He ''finished very quickly'' and asked her for another round, the woman
would later recount. She said he would have to pay another $220 -- she was
trying to raise the money to go to college in Florida. He said he would pay
again only for full sexual intercourse. She declined, and he went on his way.

Every detail of Awlaki's encounters with prostitutes was being recorded in
government files. It was not that the government especially cared about his sex
life. But soon after 9/11, in the frantic hunt for clues to the next attack, the
F.B.I. discovered that two of the hijackers, Nawaz al-Hazmi and Khalid
al-Mihdhar, had prayed at Awlaki's mosque in San Diego, and some congregants
thought they remembered seeing Hazmi enter Awlaki's study for private
discussions. Later, Hazmi and a third hijacker turned up across the country at
Dar al-Hijrah. Worried about this connection, agents interviewed Awlaki at least
three times in the days following the attacks. They found him clear in his
condemnation of the carnage, hazy in his recollection of the hijackers and
obviously wary. He declined to show the agents his passport, perhaps fearing it
might be confiscated. He opted not to answer when asked whether he lectured on
jihad, possibly fearing that the agents, clearly ignorant about Islam, might
misconstrue his answer. Not surprisingly, he did not allay their suspicions. The
F.B.I. opened a formal investigation. A surveillance team began following him 24
hours a day. His calls were monitored and his contacts vetted for ties to
terrorism. His growing stature sometimes made monitoring him a peculiar
assignment for federal agents. One day in February 2002, his F.B.I. watchers
followed him to the Pentagon, where he disappeared inside. He was a luncheon
speaker, part of an outreach effort to the Muslim community.

As the weeks passed, the bureau found no evidence that Awlaki was involved in
terrorism. But the surveillance teams did discover that he was leading a
complicated secret life. The F.B.I. listened in when he called escort services,
followed him to hotels, photographed him surreptitiously on the street and often
interviewed the women afterward. The voluminous F.B.I. files, released under the
Freedom of Information Act, make for excruciating reading, detailing every
occasion on which he paid for oral sex, for intercourse or just to watch a woman
stimulate herself. One woman remarked that he ''likes all lights on.'' She found
him ''sweet.''

He was also, of course, staggeringly reckless. He was a married man who stood on
a moral pedestal in front of a conservative congregation. In one of his
lectures, dedicated to zina, or fornication, he hailed the sanctity of marriage
and denounced ''the culture of Hollywood'' for promoting illicit sex, including
prostitution. ''The movies and the nudity and the destruction of this culture is
now global,'' he declared. Every week or so, this same man was squandering his
limited family budget for half an hour of pleasure. Awlaki had no idea anyone
knew, and he kept up his hotel visits at a steady pace.

The reasons for Awlaki's eventual departure from the United States, and for the
steady hardening of his message that followed, have long been misunderstood. For
years, anyone who studied his story assumed that he judged life in America as a
Muslim leader to be no longer tenable. By this theory, the precipitating event
happened in March 2002, when federal agents on a hunt for terrorist financiers
swept through the Islamic institutions in Northern Virginia and the homes of
their leaders. An association with Islam seemed to be the only requirement for
being targeted, and the conduct of the agents carrying out the raids was often
crude. Two days later, on March 22, Awlaki's voice shook with anger as he made
the raids the subject of his Friday sermon. He described how the wife and
daughter of one local leader had been handcuffed for four hours, prevented from
retrieving their head scarves, while male agents searched their home. He dropped
his customary calm and declared, in language he had never publicly used before:
''So this is not now a war on terrorism. We need to all be clear about this.
This is a war against Muslims. It is a war against Muslims and Islam. Not only
is it happening worldwide, but it is happening right here in America, that is
claiming to be fighting this war for the sake of freedom while it's infringing
on the freedom of its own citizens, just because they're Muslim.''

A few days later, Awlaki flew to London for a planned speaking engagement. To
the astonishment of many of his colleagues and friends, he did not return. Dar
al-Hijrah put out a statement dressing up his disappearance as a sabbatical:
''We have decided to transfer Imam Al-Awlaki to Yemen in order to take extensive
Islamic law classes.''

But the idea that Awlaki's sermon was a coded farewell doesn't hold up on
examination. In it, he cited the experience of African-Americans to urge
American Muslims to unite and fight for their rights. ''There are no rights
unless there is a struggle for those rights,'' he declared. ''And the history of
America in that sense is very clear. African-Americans in this country had to go
through a struggle. Their rights were not handed to them.'' Awlaki was urging
his fellow Muslims to stand up and demand respect. It would be an odd, or at
least cowardly, moment to flee.

As it happens, there was an intimate witness to this crucial moment, someone who
can help explain Awlaki's departure. His younger brother, Ammar, arrived for a
visit on March 23, the day after Anwar's fiery sermon. (The F.B.I. duly recorded
the arrival of a U.M.E.M., an ''unknown Middle Eastern male.'')

Ammar recalls that he lightheartedly asked his big brother just how long he
intended to stay in the United States. ''And he goes, like, 'Forever,' '' Ammar
told me, his American English even more colloquial than his brother's was. ''I
looked up to Dad and what he'd done in Yemen. I wanted Anwar to be the same. But
he said, 'No, I'm going to spend the rest of my life in America.' '' With his
preaching success, his comfortable lifestyle, his CDs and his growing national
reputation, he had set aside his father's idea of a post at Sana University.
''He was totally planning to stay,'' Ammar said.

A few days later, however, that plan somehow changed. Ammar arrived at the
mosque one evening at the time of isha, the last of the five daily prayers. He
found his generally coolheaded brother ashen and distraught. ''He was in such a
mental state, so devastated that he couldn't even lead the prayer,'' Ammar
recalled. ''He was angry, upset, sad, maybe confused.'' He put off Ammar's
questions until the next day, when he took him to a room where they could talk
privately and asked him to take the battery out of his cellphone, doing the same
himself. ''He said, 'Something happened last night that made me reconsider my
stay here in the States,' '' Ammar recalled. '' 'I was told that the F.B.I. has
a file on me, and this file could destroy my life. I'm now rethinking my
options, and one of them might be as drastic as leaving the States.' ''

Awlaki did not tell his admiring younger brother what was in the file. But a
document from the 9/11 Commission records at the National Archives, declassified
at my request, shows that a few days after Ammar's arrival, the manager of an
escort service called Awlaki to warn him that he had been interviewed by Wade
Ammerman, an F.B.I. agent, who had asked about the imam's visits to prostitutes.
It was clear from Ammerman's questions that the F.B.I. knew everything.

Awlaki's panic, his sudden agitation about the course of his life, does not
appear to have been triggered by American hostility to Muslims. Rather, he seems
to have realized that his own un-­Islamic behavior had put his career success
and family comity at risk. If the bureau charged him, or leaked the files, he
might instantly lose the moral authority he brought to public arguments over the
war in Afghanistan or the dubious roundup of Muslim men. If the F.B.I. chose
instead to threaten exposure to coerce his cooperation, that might be even
worse. Within a few days, he was gone, and he would never live in the United
States again.

Despite the danger that he perceived from the prostitution dossier, Awlaki did
not immediately give up on the possibility of resuming his American life. Awlaki
was hardly in a position to tell his family about the menacing F.B.I. file, and
his father pressured him to return to Washington and resume work on his Ph.D.
Awlaki returned for one visit, in October 2002, but uncertain of the F.B.I.'s
intentions, he did not dare risk staying. In fact, though he had no way of
knowing it, F.B.I. memos from 2002 show that officials were exploring the
possibility of charging Awlaki with a prostitution-related offense. A year after
his visit, in the fall of 2003, he astonished F.B.I. agents by calling the
bureau's Washington field office out of the blue, expressing a desire to meet in
London or Sana to clear up any suspicions, possibly as a prelude to returning to
the United States. He mentioned media reports tying him to 9/11 because some
hijackers had visited his mosques, which he called ''absurd''; presumably he
also wanted to find out whether the bureau planned to act on the prostitution
file. But the F.B.I. treated the issue as a low priority, and when Awlaki
stopped answering emails, plans to meet in London fell through, records show. As
late as 2004, when Awlaki returned to Yemen for what would prove to be the
remainder of his life, he would sometimes suggest to family members that he
might still move back to the United States. ''He would always say, 'Thank God
I'm an American citizen and I have a second home to go back to if things go
wrong in Yemen,' '' his uncle, Saleh bin Fareed al-Awlaki, told me.

It is a tantalizing period, hinting at an alternate history. What if the F.B.I.,
recognizing Awlaki's influence and value as a mediator with the Muslim
community, had assured him that there was no plan to use the prostitution
evidence to charge or embarrass him? What if he had resumed his life in
Washington and continued to grow into an important public figure? Might he have
become a responsible leader, a voice in the debates over the wars in Muslim
countries, the wisdom of drone strikes, the fate of Guantánamo? Might he never
have joined Al Qaeda? The contemporary history of terrorism, not to mention his
playlist on YouTube, could have unspooled quite differently.

Instead, Awlaki's ambition took a new and more militant path. At first subtly in
2003, while in Britain, and more clearly after 2005, his rhetoric became
increasingly ferocious, his embrace of violence more open. After moving on to
Yemen, he was arrested in 2006 and held for 18 months without charges at least
in part as a result of American pressure. Not long after his release at the end
of 2007, angered by the Yemeni surveillance teams constantly following him
around Sana, he would depart for his family's ancestral home in Shabwah
province, also the hideout for Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Within months
he would be part of the group and, soon after that, deeply involved in plotting
attacks on America.

In 2010, when Obama ordered a legal review and then approved the killing of
Awlaki, some civil libertarians objected, saying that he was being denied his
constitutional rights as an American citizen. But some Muslim commentators
publicly expressed caution for more practical reasons. One was Mohamed Elibiary,
a security consultant and a law-and-order Texas Republican. ''It was very clear,
at least to me, that if you're trying to fight a martyrdom culture, you don't go
make martyrs,'' he said. ''I'm sorry to say, I think I was right.'' In recent
years, Elibiary has regularly interviewed Americans charged with terrorism for
the federal public defender's office. ''In that world, to the last person, you
find that they're convinced that Anwar al-Awlaki is a good guy and a martyr,''
he said. ''What seals the deal for them is that he was killed by the United
States.''

Beyond Awlaki's case, concerns inside and outside the government about blowback
from drone strikes have steadily grown, fed by the backlash against the
unintended deaths of civilians. Among those victims was Awlaki's 16-year-old
son, also a U.S. citizen, killed two weeks after his father in what American
officials call a mistake; they say they were targeting an Al Qaeda operative.
Part of the problem with the focus on targeted killing is that it fuels the
central narrative of Al Qaeda and the Islamic State: that the United States is
at war with Islam, that it is killing Muslims and that the obligatory religious
response is armed jihad. The suspected perpetrators of two of the most prominent
foiled attacks in the United States, a plot to blow up the New York subway and
the failed car bombing of Times Square, said their anger at drone strikes pushed
them to act.

A number of high-ranking security officials, after leaving office, have also
expressed deep concerns about drone strikes. ''They are hated on a visceral
level, even by people who've never seen one or seen the effects of one,''
Stanley McChrystal, a retired general and former head of the Joint Special
Operations Command, told Reuters. Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, former head of the
Defense Intelligence Agency, told Al Jazeera English that he had concluded that
drone strikes were doing more harm than good. ''It's a failed strategy,'' he
said. Bruce Riedel, a former veteran C.I.A. officer who has long studied
terrorism, said drones have eliminated very dangerous people, but the government
has become ''drone addicted,'' firing missiles too often in Pakistan and Yemen.

There can be no doubt that President Obama has thought deeply about the problem
of blowback in the war on Al Qaeda -- he campaigned for president in 2008 on
exactly that issue. He denounced the Iraq invasion, torture, secret detention
and the prison at Guantánamo Bay as mistakes that had become ''recruiting
tools'' for Al Qaeda. The rise of the Islamic State, that monstrous offspring of
Al Qaeda and the Iraq war, has only underscored the catastrophic repercussions
of bad decisions. When Islamic State executioners dressed American journalists
in Guantánamo-style orange jumpsuits before beheading them, it was hard to miss
the reference. Today the familiar image of the Predator drone is scrawled in
graffiti on walls from Cairo to Karachi, reflecting a defiant anger.

Speaking at the Pentagon in early July, Obama acknowledged, not for the first
time, the limits of counterterrorism based solely on killing: ''Ultimately, in
order for us to defeat terrorist groups like ISIL and Al Qaeda, it's going to
also require us to discredit their ideology -- the twisted thinking that draws
vulnerable people into their ranks. Ideologies are not defeated with guns;
they're defeated by better ideas.'' Underlying such statements is a concern,
quiet but widespread inside the government, about the wisdom of American
strategy. Increased surveillance and strikes overseas have almost certainly made
the country less vulnerable to a major attack. But it is also true that the
minority of Muslims worldwide who believe that America is at war with Islam, and
that their faith justifies violence in response, appears to have grown since
2001. And jihadist ideology, slickly packaged and repackaged on the Internet and
social media, seems able to lure an endless supply of new recruits to terrorist
groups.

So, was there a better idea of how to deal with Awlaki once he had joined Al
Qaeda? Yemeni tribes might have been induced to capture him and turn him over,
but a criminal trial would have given a global audience to a mesmerizing orator.
Martyrdom would have been avoided, but his YouTube presence would have lived on
intact. A more outlandish idea was raised immediately after Awlaki's death by Ed
Husain, a former British militant who recounts his journey into and out of
extremism in his memoir, ''The Islamist.'' Husain suggested then, and believes
now, that a better approach might have been a careful, high-profile public
release of the prostitution files on Awlaki. ''He was an imam when he was up to
these shenanigans,'' Husain told me. ''Exposing that, I think, would have
discredited him and more important undermined the message -- that they are these
high and mighty, pious, believing brothers who are declaring jihad on the West.
Expose them for what they are.''

Such a move would, of course, have raised its own dilemmas and risks. There is
something unsavory about peddling sexual secrets, though that seems a minor
objection if the alternative is execution by drone. For some, the suggestion
would echo the F.B.I.'s deplorable attempts to use surveillance recordings to
smear the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., however profound the moral gulf between
the two targets. Awlaki and Al Qaeda could have been counted on to denounce the
material as a fabrication, though its volume and detail might have undercut such
claims. In any case, far from trying such an unconventional tactic, the F.B.I.
kept the documents secret until long after Awlaki's death, releasing them in
redacted form only when forced to under the Freedom of Information Act.

Riedel, the C.I.A. veteran, said innovative tactics that focus on countering the
ideology of Al Qaeda and ISIS merit serious consideration. The overreliance on
killing, he said, has pushed aside more imaginative approaches. ''We've spent
trillions on hard power,'' he said. ''How much have we spent on soft power? We
are, after all, the nation of Hollywood. We know how to make our case and sell a
product and smear an enemy. With Awlaki, we could have done all of those things:
We could have countered his argument, we could have smeared his reputation. Here
it is more than three years after his death, and we still haven't made the case.
He still has this iconic status as a knight of Islam. And he was anything but.''

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/the-lessons-of-anwar-al-awlaki.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Awlaki at the center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDA SPILLERS FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (MM57)
Anwar al-Awlaki, at the Dar al-Hijrah Islamic Center in Falls Church, Va., with
Patricia Morris, who organized a vigil supporting the center shortly after 9/11.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACY A. WOODWARD/THE WASHINGTON POST, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (MM59)
Starting in 2010, Awlaki often posed with weapons in Al Qaeda propaganda.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SITE INTELLIGENCE GROUP, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
 Awlaki's son Abdulrahman, 16, was also killed in a drone strike in Yemen.
(PHOTOGRAPH FROM AWLAKI FAMILY) (MM60)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); TERRORISM (89%); SHOOTINGS
(89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); BOMBINGS (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); RAMADAN (76%);
LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FORT HOOD SHOOTINGS
(72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

CITY: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (50%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%);
PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); YEMEN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Connecticut

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 4020 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events in Connecticut. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to ctcal@nytimes.com

Comedy

BRIDGEPORT The Bijou Theater ''It's All Fun and Games,'' improvisation. Sept. 4
at 8 p.m. $10 to $25. The Bijou Theater, 275 Fairfield Avenue. 203-332-3228;
thebijoutheatre.com.

MANCHESTER The Hartford Funny Bone Darren Rivera. Aug. 30 at 7 p.m. $7. Mike
Winfield. Sept. 3 through 6. $10 and $15. The Hartford Funny Bone, 194 Buckland
Hills Drive. hartfordfunnybone.com; 860-432-8600.

MASHANTUCKET Comix at Foxwoods Resort Casino Joe DeVito. Sept. 3 through 5. $10
to $20. Comix at Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350 Trolley Line Boulevard.
866-646-0609; comixatfoxwoods.com.

MASHANTUCKET Grand Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino Gabriel Iglesias. Sept. 5 at
8 p.m. $40 to $65. Grand Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350 Trolley Line
Boulevard. 800-200-2882; foxwoods.com.

NORFOLK Infinity Hall Wali Collins, Liz Miele, Robin Fox and Shaun Eli. Sept. 5
at 8 p.m. $25 to $35. Infinity Hall, 20 Greenwoods Road. 866-666-6306;
infinityhall.com.

Film

BRIDGEPORT The Bijou Theater ''Kramer vs. Kramer'' (1979), directed by Robert
Benton. Sept. 10 at 7 p.m. $10 and $12. The Bijou Theater, 275 Fairfield Avenue.
203-332-3228; thebijoutheatre.com.

HARTFORD Cinestudio ''The Kindergarten Teacher,'' directed by Nadav Lapid.
Through Sept. 1. ''Amy,'' documentary by Asif Kapadia. Sept. 2 through 5. $7 and
$9. Cinestudio, 300 Summit Street. 860-297-2463; cinestudio.org.

NEW LONDON Garde Arts Center ''Back to the Future'' (1985), directed by Robert
Zemeckis. Aug. 30 at 5 p.m. $8. ''Merchants of Doubt,'' documentary by Robert
Kenner. Sept. 3 at 7:30 p.m. ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' (1975),
directed by Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones. Sept. 4 at 7:30 p.m. $8. Garde Arts
Center, 325 State Street. 860-444-7373; gardearts.org.

STAMFORD Avon Theater ''Paul Taylor Creative Domain,'' documentary screening and
discussion with the director, Kate Geis. Sept. 2 at 7:30 p.m. $7 to $12. Carte
Blanche members, free. Avon Theater, 272 Bedford Street. 203-967-3660;
avontheatre.org.

For Children

ANSONIA Ansonia Nature Center Nature's Child: Incredible Insects, outdoor and
educational activities. Sept. 4 at 10:30 a.m. $4 and $6 per family. Ansonia
Nature Center, 10 Deerfield Road. ansonianaturecenter.org; 203-736-1053.

GREENWICH Bruce Museum Family Studio Workshop: Abstract Painting. Aug. 30 at 1
p.m. $7 and $15. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bruce Museum, 1
Museum Drive. 203-869-0376; brucemuseum.org. NORWALK Maritime Aquarium ''Picture
the Moment: International Children's Art Exhibit.'' Through Sept. 1. ''Flutter
Zone,'' walk-through with butterflies from three continents. Through Sept. 7.
$12.95 to $19.95. Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Maritime Aquarium, 10 North Water
Street. maritimeaquarium.org; 203-852-0700.

Music and Dance

COLLINSVILLE Bridge Street Live Eilen Jewell, folk and rock. Sept. 3 at 8 p.m.
$20 and $25. The Guthrie Brothers, Simon and Garfunkel tribute concert. Sept. 4
at 8 p.m. $15 and $25. Bridge Street Live, 41 Bridge Street. 860-693-9762;
41bridgestreet.com.

DANBURY Ives Concert Park Latin Music Festival, Bayron Caicedo, Bajo Suenos,
Manolo and others. Sept. 6 at 1 p.m. $20; children 12 and under, free. Ives
Concert Park, 43 Lake Avenue Extension. 203-837-9226; ivesconcertpark.com.

FAIRFIELD StageOne, Fairfield Theater Company Kitty, Daisy and Lewis, rock and
blues. Sept. 1 at 7:45 p.m. $28. Roomful of Blues, swing and rock. Sept. 5 at 7
p.m. $42. StageOne, Fairfield Theater Company, 70 Sanford Street.
fairfieldtheatre.org; 203-259-1036.

FALLS VILLAGE Music Mountain Dover String Quartet with Alexander Fiterstein,
classical. Aug. 30 at 3 p.m. $30 and $35. Shanghai String Quartet, classical.
Sept. 5 at 6:30 p.m. $30 and $35. Benefit concert and reception on Sept. 6 at 3
p.m. is $75. Music Mountain, 225 Music Mountain Road. musicmountain.org;
860-824-7126.

HARTFORD Infinity Hall Hartford Roomful of Blues, swing and rock. Sept. 4 at 8
p.m. $35 to $55. Infinity Hall Hartford, 32 Front Street. 860-560-7757;
infinityhall.com.

MASHANTUCKET Grand Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino Ricardo Arjona, Latin pop.
Sept. 4 at 8 p.m. $78 and $138. Grand Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350
Trolley Line Boulevard. 800-200-2882; foxwoods.com.

NORFOLK Infinity Hall Ambrosia, pop. Sept. 4 at 8 p.m. $34 to $49. Infinity
Hall, 20 Greenwoods Road. 866-666-6306; infinityhall.com.

OLD LYME The Side Door Power Quintet, jazz. Sept. 3 at 7:30 p.m. $38. Noah
Preminger Quartet, jazz. Sept. 4 at 7:30 p.m. $30. Somi, jazz. Sept. 5 at 7:30
p.m. $35. The Side Door, 85 Lyme Street. 860-434-0886; thesidedoorjazz.com.

RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse Bernie Williams and Friends Charity Softball
Game and Performance. Aug. 30 at 7:30 p.m. $55 to $90. Tickets to the game at 1
p.m. are $20. The Fixx, rock and new wave. Sept. 2 at 8 p.m. $38. Ridgefield
Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Road. 203-438-5795; ridgefieldplayhouse.org.

STAFFORD SPRINGS The Stafford Palace Theater House of Lords, rock. Sept. 4 at 8
p.m. $20 to $25. The Stafford Palace Theater, 75 Main Street.
thestaffordpalacetheater.com; 860-851-9780.

WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut Old School Labor Day Weekend Dance
Party. Sept. 6 at 8 p.m. $15 and $20. Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East
Main Street. 203-755-4700; palacetheaterct.org.

WESTPORT Levitt Pavilion Chris Berardo and the DesBerardos, rock. Aug. 30 at 7
p.m. Free. Levitt Pavilion, 40 Jesup Road. 203-221-2153; levittpavilion.com.

Outdoors

FAIRFIELD Congregation Beth El Southern New England Kosher BBQ Championship and
Crafts Fair. Aug. 30, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is free with a donation of two
cans of food for local food pantries. Congregation Beth El, 1200 Fairfield Woods
Road. 203-374-5544; snekosherbbq.org.

HAMDEN Sleeping Giant Park Geology of the Giant Hike, guided walk. Sept. 6 at
1:30 p.m. Free. Sleeping Giant Park, 200 Mount Carmel Avenue. 203-789-7498;
sgpa.org.

MILFORD New Haven Bird Club First Wednesday Walk, Connecticut Audubon Coastal
Center, 1 Milford Point Road. Sept. 2 at 8 p.m. Free. New Haven Bird Club,
203-928-8089; newhavenbirdclub.org.

ORANGE Saint Barbara Greek Orthodox Church Odyssey: A Greek Festival, food,
music, dancing, a marketplace and children's activities. Sept. 4 through 7.
Admission and parking are free. Saint Barbara Greek Orthodox Church, 480
Racebrook Road. 203-795-1347; saintbarbara.org. POMFRET CENTER Connecticut
Audubon Society at Pomfret Wednesday Noon Walks, guided hikes and naturalist
lessons. Through Dec. 30. $3; members, free. Connecticut Audubon Society at
Pomfret, 218 Day Road. 860-928-4948; ctaudubon.org.

Spoken Word

CANTERBURY The Prudence Crandall Museum Prudence Crandall Day, music, food,
craft demonstrations and games. Sept. 5, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Free. Thursdays
through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Prudence Crandall Museum, 1 South
Canterbury Road. cultureandtourism.org; 860-546-7800.

HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art ''Contemporary Art Series: MATRIX
Artists in Conversation,'' with Mark Bradford and Ruben Ochoa. Sept. 2 at 5 p.m.
Free. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main Street. thewadsworth.org;
860-278-2670.

Theater

BRIDGEPORT The Bijou Theater ''Tick, Tick ... Boom!'' musical by Jonathan Larson
and David Auburn. Sept. 11 through 20. $18 to $28. The Bijou Theater, 275
Fairfield Avenue. thebijoutheatre .com; 203-332-3228.

EAST HADDAM Goodspeed Opera House ''La Cage aux Folles,'' musical by Harvey
Fierstein and Jerry Herman. Through Sept. 6. $28 to $75. Goodspeed Opera House,
6 Main Street. 860-873-8668; goodspeed.org.

HARTFORD Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts ''Madea on the Run,'' starring
Tyler Perry. Sept. 11 at 8 p.m. and Sept. 12 at noon, 4 and 8 p.m. $48.50 to
$98.50. Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue.
860-987-5900; bushnell.org.

IVORYTON Ivoryton Playhouse ''Memphis,'' musical by David Bryan and Joe
DiPietro. Through Aug. 30. $15 to $42. Ivoryton Playhouse, 103 Main Street.
ivorytonplayhouse.org; 860-767-7318.

MASHANTUCKET Fox Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino ''Id,'' Cirque Éloize. Through
Aug. 30. $30 to $65. Fox Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350 Trolley Line
Boulevard. foxwoods.com; 800-200-2882.

NEW HAVEN Edgerton Park ''Twelfth Night,'' by Shakespeare. Through Sept. 6.
Donations accepted. Edgerton Park, 75 Cliff Street. elmshakespeare.org;
203-874-0801.

NEW HAVEN Long Wharf Theater ''Murder for Two,'' musical comedy by Joe Kinosian
and Kellen Blair. Through Aug. 30. $55. Long Wharf Theater, 222 Sargent Drive.
203-787-4282; longwharf.org.

RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Theater Barn ''Calendar Girls,'' comedy by Tim Firth.
Sept. 11 through Oct. 3. $20 and $24. Ridgefield Theater Barn, 37 Halpin Lane.
203-431-9850; ridgefieldtheaterbarn.org.

WESTPORT Westport Country Playhouse ''Bedroom Farce,'' comedy by Alan Ayckbourn.
Through Sept. 13. $25 to $85. Westport Country Playhouse, 25 Powers Court.
203-227-4177; westportplayhouse.org.

Museums and Galleries

CHESTER Elle Design Studio ''The Artists of Gallery One,'' group show. Through
Aug. 30. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. Elle Design Studio, 1 Main Street. 860-526-8470; elledesignstudio.net.

DANBURY The Gallery at Still River Editions ''Mobile Pics CT 2015,'' group show.
Through Sept. 25. Weekdays, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Gallery at Still River
Editions, 128 East Liberty Street. stillrivereditions.com; 203-791-1474.

FAIRFIELD Art/Place Gallery ''Variety Show,'' Elaine Clayton, Arthur Gerstein
and Alice Katz. Through Sept. 28. Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m.;
Sundays, 2 to 5 p.m. Art/Place Gallery, 70 Sanford Street. 203-374-9720;
artplacegallery.org.

GREENWICH Bruce Museum ''Walls of Color: The Murals of Hans Hofmann.'' Through
Sept. 6. ''The Seven Deadly Sins: Pride.'' Through Oct. 18. ''Madagascar: Ghosts
of the Past.'' Through Nov. 8. ''Theodore Nierenberg: Photographs From His World
Travels.'' Through Nov. 29. $6 and $7; members and children under 5, free.
Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bruce Museum, 1 Museum Drive.
203-869-0376; brucemuseum.org.

GROTON Alexey von Schlippe Gallery of Art, University of Connecticut ''Late
Summer Exhibition,'' Rick Daskam, Rita Dawley, Mark Gerard McKee and Viretta
Hoskins Smith. Through Sept. 5. Suggested donation, $3. Members and students,
free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Alexey von Schlippe Gallery of
Art, University of Connecticut, 1084 Shennecossett Road. 860-405-9052;
averypointarts.uconn.edu.

HAMDEN Arnold Bernhard Library ''Saving the Famine Irish: The Grey Nuns and the
Great Hunger.'' Through March 18. Mondays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Arnold Bernhard Library, 275 Mount Carmel Avenue.
203-582-8633; quinnipiac.edu. HARTFORD Connecticut Commission on Culture and
Tourism Gallery ''Move: An Exhibition of Artist Fellowship Recipients,'' group
show. Through Nov. 6. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Connecticut
Commission on Culture and Tourism Gallery, One Constitution Plaza.
cultureandtourism.org; 860-256-2800.

HARTFORD Real Art Ways ''Getting School'd,'' J. C Lenochan. ''The Energy-Love:
Miracle,'' Insook Hwang. Through Sept. 18. Suggested donation, $3; members and
cinema patrons, free. Daily, 2 to 9 p.m.; and by appointment. Real Art Ways, 56
Arbor Street. 860-232-1006; realartways.org.

HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art ''Mark Bradford/MATRIX 172.'' Through
Sept. 6. ''Peter Blume: Nature and Metamorphosis.'' Through Sept. 20. ''Visions
from Home: Surrealism in Connecticut.'' Through Oct. 20. ''Aspects of
Portraiture: Photographs from the Wadsworth Atheneum.'' Through Dec. 13. $5 to
$10; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to
5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; first Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8
p.m. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main Street. thewadsworth.org;
860-278-2670.

KENT James Barron Art ''August Flowers,'' group show. Through Sept. 7.
Wednesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. James
Barron Art, 4 Fulling Lane. 917-270-8044; jamesbarronart.com.

LAKEVILLE The White Gallery ''Dunlop and Dunlop: a Family Affair,'' paintings by
David and Max Dunlop. Through Oct. 11. Thursdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4
p.m.; and by appointment. The White Gallery, 344 Main Street. 860-435-1029;
thewhitegalleryart.com.

LITCHFIELD Wisdom House ''Ephemera: Holding a Moment in Your Hand,'' Jean
Linville. Through Sept. 12. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Wisdom
House, 229 East Litchfield Road. 860-567-3163; wisdomhouse.org.

MYSTIC Maritime Art Gallery, at Mystic Seaport ''The Plein Air Painters of the
Maritime Gallery.'' Through Sept. 30. Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Maritime Art
Gallery, at Mystic Seaport, 47 Greenmanville Avenue. 860-572-5388;
mysticseaport.org/gallery.

MYSTIC Mystic Arts Center ''Cuba! Cuba!'' Photographs by Karin Forde Whittemore.
Through Sept. 19. Daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mystic Arts Center, 9 Water Street.
860-536-7601; mysticarts.org.

NEW BRITAIN New Britain Museum of American Art ''Tom Yost: A Modern Realist.''
Through Sept. 27. ''NEW/NOW: Katja Loher: How Can We Cool Down the Gilded Sun
Beam?'' Through Nov. 1. ''The Shakers: Focus on Enfield, Connecticut.'' Through
Nov. 20. ''All Time Favorites from the Low Illustration Collection.'' Through
Feb. 21. $8 to $12; members and children under 12, free. Mondays, Tuesdays,
Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. New Britain Museum of
American Art, 56 Lexington Street. 860-229-0257; nbmaa.org.

NEW CANAAN New Canaan Historical Society ''Woven in Time: Kashmir Shawls.''
Through Sept. 5. $5. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays, 10
a.m. to 12:30 p.m. New Canaan Historical Society, 13 Oenoke Ridge.
nchistory.org; 203-966-1776.

NEW CANAAN New Canaan Library ''I Been Looking for You,'' paintings by Charles
Schick and drawings by Regina Bartkoff. Through Oct. 4. Mondays through
Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. New Canaan
Library, 151 Main Street. 203-594-5003; newcanaanlibrary.org.

NEW CANAAN Silvermine Arts Center Galleries ''Worlds Without End,'' group show.
Paintings by Victor Pesce. ''The Peel Project,'' Thomas Berntsen. Through Sept.
13. Wednesdays through Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.; and by
appointment. Silvermine Arts Center Galleries, 1037 Silvermine Road.
silvermineart.org; 203-966-9700.

NEW HAVEN Artspace ''Arresting Patterns,'' group show. Through Sept. 12.
Wednesdays and Thursdays, noon to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m.
Artspace, 50 Orange Street. 203-772-2709; artspacenh.org.

NEW HAVEN Azoth Gallery, at the New Haven Public Library ''Atomic War I,'' group
show to commemorate the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Through Aug. 31.
Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to
5 p.m. Azoth Gallery, at the New Haven Public Library, 133 Elm Street.
203-387-4933; azothgallery.com.

NEW HAVEN City Gallery ''American Landscapes,'' mixed process prints by Mary
Lesser. Sept. 3 through 27. Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m.; and by
appointment. City Gallery, 994 State Street. 203-782-2489; city-gallery.org.

NEW HAVEN New Haven Museum ''From Clocks to Lollipops: Made in New Haven.''
Through Dec. 31. $2 to $4; children under 12, free. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.; first Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. New Haven
Museum, 114 Whitney Avenue. newhavenmuseum.org; 203-562-4183.

NEW HAVEN Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History ''Samurai and the Culture of
Japan's Great Peace.'' Through Jan. 3. $4 to $9; members and Yale ID holders,
free. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Yale
Peabody Museum of Natural History, 170 Whitney Avenue. peabody.yale.edu;
203-432-5050.

NEW HAVEN Yale University Art Gallery ''Donald Blumberg Photographs: Selections
From the Master Sets.'' Through Nov. 22. ''The Ceramic Presence in Modern Art:
Selections from the Linda Leonard Schlenger Collection and the Yale University
Art Gallery.'' Sept. 4 through Jan. 3. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5
p.m. Yale University Art Gallery, 1111 Chapel Street. artgallery.yale.edu;
203-432-0600.

NEW LONDON Lyman Allyn Art Museum ''Launchpad of the American Theater: The
O'Neill Since 1964.'' Through Jan. 3. ''The Gaze Returned: Portrait Studio.''
Through Jan. 10. $5 to $10; members and children under 12, free. Tuesdays
through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Lyman Allyn Art
Museum, 625 Williams Street. 860-443-2545; lymanallyn.org.

NORWALK Center for Contemporary Printmaking The 10th biennial International
Miniature Print Exhibition. Through Aug. 30. Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to
5 p.m. Center for Contemporary Printmaking, 299 West Avenue. contemprints.org;
203-899-7999.

NORWALK Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum ''Interpretations,'' group show. Through
Oct. 1. ''Tropical Luxuriance: The Mansion's Conservatory, 1868 to 1880.''
Through Jan. 6. $6 to $10; members and children under 8, free. Wednesdays
through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum, 295 West
Avenue. lockwoodmathewsmansion.com; 203-838-9799.

OLD LYME Florence Griswold Museum ''All the Sea Knows: Marine Art From the
Museum of the City of New York.'' Through Sept. 20. $8 to $10; children under
12, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.
Florence Griswold Museum, 96 Lyme Street. 860-434-5542; flogris.org.

OLD LYME Lyme Art Association Gallery ''Summer Days, Starry Nights,'' group
show. ''Purely Pastel,'' Connecticut Pastel Society. Through Sept. 18. Suggested
donation, $5. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; and by appointment.
Lyme Art Association Gallery, 90 Lyme Street. lymeartassociation.org;
860-434-7802.

RIDGEFIELD Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum ''Seven Deadly Sins: Sloth.'' Through
Sept. 19. ''Virginia Poundstone: Flower Mutations.'' ''Nancy Shaver:
Reconciliation.'' ''Ruby Sky Stiler: Ghost Version.'' ''Penelope Umbrico:
Shallow Sun.'' ''Elif Uras: Nicaea.'' ''B. Wurtz: Four Collections.'' Through
Oct. 25. $5 and $10. Members, K-12 teachers, active-service military families
and children under 18, free; Tuesdays, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5
p.m. Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street. aldrichart.org;
203-438-4519.

RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Guild of Artists Gallery Art Walk 2015, artwork at various
locations around town. Through Sept. 12. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 4
p.m. Ridgefield Guild of Artists Gallery, 34 Halpin Lane. 203-438-8863;
rgoa.org.

ROXBURY Minor Memorial Library ''The Art of the Book,'' paintings by Wendell
Minor. Through Sept. 5. Mondays, noon to 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 2
p.m. Minor Memorial Library, 23 South Street. minormemoriallibrary.org;
860-350-2181.

SHARON Hotchkiss Library of Sharon ''Karen LeSage: New Paintings.'' Through Aug.
31. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays,
noon to 7 p.m.; Saturdays 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays noon to 3 p.m. The
Hotchkiss Library of Sharon, 10 Upper Main Street. hotchkisslibrary.org;
860-364-5041.

STAMFORD Fernando Luis Alvarez Gallery ''Thank You, CT!'' Group show. Through
Sept. 12. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; and by appointment on
Mondays. Fernando Luis Alvarez Gallery, 96 Bedford Street. flalvarezgallery.com;
888-861-6791.

STAMFORD Franklin Street Works ''Acting on Dreams: The State of Immigrant
Rights, Conditions and Advocacy in the United States,'' group show. Through Aug.
30. Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 8 a.m. to
5 p.m. Franklin Street Works, 41 Franklin Street. 203-595-5211;
franklinstreetworks.org.

STAMFORD Loft Artists Association ''Peak Season,'' group show. Through Aug. 30.
Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m. Loft Artists Association, 575 Pacific
Street. 203-247-2027; loftartists.com.

STAMFORD University of Connecticut Stamford Art Gallery ''Looking for More,''
works by Peter Konsterlie and Yves Francois Wilson. Through Sept. 17. Weekdays,
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. University of Connecticut Stamford
Art Gallery, 1 University Place. 203-251-8450; artgallery.stamford.uconn.edu.

STONY CREEK Willoughby Wallace Memorial Library ''Trees and People,'' works by
Sigrun Muller. Sept. 6 through 30. Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.;
Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Willoughby
Wallace Memorial Library, 146 Thimble Island Road. 203-488-8702; wwml.org.

STORRS William Benton Museum of Art, University of Connecticut ''Speak Up! Speak
Out! Bread & Puppet Theater.'' Through Oct. 11. ''Dotted Dialogues: Contemporary
Indigenous Art from Central Australia.'' Sept. 1 through Oct. 11. Tuesdays
through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m.
William Benton Museum of Art, University of Connecticut, 245 Glenbrook Road.
benton.uconn.edu; 860-486-4520.

STRATFORD Stratford Library ''256 Shades of Gray,'' photographs by Jim Duffy.
Through Aug. 31. Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Stratford Library, 2203 Main Street. 203-385-4162;
stratfordlibrary.org.

WASHINGTON DEPOT KMR Arts ''I Control the Sun,'' photographs by Lilly McElroy.
Through Sept. 19. Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and by
appointment. KMR Arts, 2 Titus Road. 860-868-7533; kmrarts.com.

WASHINGTON DEPOT Washington Art Association Faculty and Student Exhibition.
Through Sept. 5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to
4 p.m. Washington Art Association, 4 Bryan Memorial Plaza. 860-868-2878;
washingtonartassociation.org.

WATERBURY Mattatuck Museum ''Spirit of Place: Don Gummer, Drawings and Wall
Reliefs, 1975-2015.'' ''Chance, Control and Collaboration,'' group show.
''Unsettled Identities,'' group show. Through Sept. 13. ''Signature Moments:
Historic Letters and Documents.'' Through Nov. 15. $6 and $7; members and
children under 16, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays,
noon to 5 p.m. Mattatuck Museum, 144 West Main Street. 203-753-0381;
mattatuckmuseum.org.

WESTPORT Nylen Gallery ''Wendy Everett: New Work.'' Through Sept. 30. Weekdays,
10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Nylen Gallery, 606 Post Road
East. picturethisofwestport.com; 203-227-6861.

WESTPORT Westport Arts Center Eric Fischl, photographs and paintings. Through
Sept. 5. Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 2
p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Westport Arts Center, 51 Riverside Avenue.
203-222-7070; westportartscenter.org.

WESTPORT Westport Historical Society ''Howard Munce at 100,'' retrospective
exhibition. Through Sept. 14. Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.;
Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Westport Historical Society, 25 Avery Place.
westporthistory.org; 203-222-1424.

WILTON Wilton Historical Society ''In the Making: Historic Inspirations/New
Quilts,'' Denyse Schmidt. ''One Loop at a Time: June Myles's Hooked Rugs.''
Through Oct. 3. Suggested donation, $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. Wilton Historical Society, 224 Danbury Road. wiltonhistorical.org;
203-762-7257.

WOODBRIDGE J.C.C. of Greater New Haven Paintings by Dorit Gur. Through Sept. 30.
Mondays through Thursdays, 5:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays, 5:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.;
Saturdays and Sundays, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. J.C.C. of Greater New Haven, 360 Amity
Road. 203-387-2522; jccnh.org.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/things-to-do-in-connecticut-aug-30-to
-sept-6-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HARTFORD: Sierra Leone's Refugee All Stars will perform on Aug.
30 at 7:30 p.m. at Infinity Hall Hartford, 32 Front Street. Tickets are $24 to
$34. For further information: 860-560-7757 or infinityhall.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
AGENCJA GAZETA/REUTERS) (CT9)
HARTFORD: The film ''A Little Chaos,'' directed by and starring Alan Rickman, is
being shown Sept. 6 through 9 at Cinestudio, 300 Summit Street. Tickets are $7
and $9. For further information: 860-297-2463 or cinestudio.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ALEX BAILEY/FOCUS FEATURES)
CENTERBROOK: ''Reflection of the Mind II'' (2015), cutout book pages and acrylic
inks by Marco Gallotta, is on view in the group exhibition ''Collage: It's an
Adventure!'' through Sept. 13 at the Spectrum Gallery, 61 Main Street. For
further information: 860-767- 0742 or spectrumart gallery.org.
WESTPORT: Robert Randolph & the Family Band is one of the many bands scheduled
to perform in the Blues, Views and BBQ Festival on Sept. 5 and 6 at the Levitt
Pavilion, 40 Jesup Road. Tickets are $10 to $60
 children 12 and under, free. Two-day passes are $60 to $85. For further
information: 203-505- 8716 or bluesviewsbbq.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (CT10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); CASINOS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS
& GALLERIES (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (87%); FILM DIRECTORS (87%); CHILDREN
(69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); PAINTING (68%)

COMPANY: FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (93%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (93%)

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA
(79%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SIERRA LEONE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jayne Kang, Phillip Kim

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 146 words


Jayne Kang, a daughter of Junghee Kang and Byung Jae Kang of Austin, Tex., was
married Saturday to Phillip Kim, the son of Grace Kim of Blue Bell, Pa., and the
late Sang Kwon. The Rev. Gerald Donnelly officiated at the Bermuda Run Country
Club in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Mrs. Kim, 34, is an architect for CJMW Architecture in Winston-Salem. She
graduated from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and has a master's
degree in architecture from Harvard. Her father, who is retired, was a vice
president of Informatica, a software company.

Mr. Kim, 28, is a second-year medical student at Wake Forest. He graduated from
Boston University and has a master's in biomedical science from Tufts. His
mother is a financial adviser in Blue Bell for HD Vest, an investment firm.

The couple met when Mr. Kim introduced himself to Ms. Kang as she was walking in
Boston to meet a friend.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/jayne-kang-phillip-kim.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNA DUFFY PHOTOGRAPHY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); BIOMEDICINE (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE
(53%)

COMPANY: BELL PA (91%); H D VEST INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%);
NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211
SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA
(69%); BOSTON, MA, USA (69%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the List

BYLINE: By PARUL SEHGAL

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 481 words


The Kings of Comedy: The director Judd Apatow began interviewing his comedy
idols while still in high school. In ''Sick in the Head,'' No.â[#x20ac]¯17 on
the extended hardcover nonfiction list, he compiles almost 30 years of
conversations with legends like Mel Brooks, Steve Martin, Jerry Seinfeld and
Chris Rock into a master class of the form -- of why people come to comedy
(Roseanne Barr: ''My dad wouldn't hit me if I got him with humor right between
the eyes'') and how to do it well (Amy Schumer: ''The stuff you're copping to
and the saddest, worst moments of your life -- that's the stuff people connect
to and Â­appreciate'').

This summer, Apatow has been promoting the book as well as his new movie,
''Trainwreck,'' written by and starring Schumer. He also returned to performing
standup. ''It's good for me to be making things,'' he told Marc Maron in an
interview for New York magazine's Vulture site. ''I have no spirituality, and I
get nervous if I'm not in the process of accomplishing something. I don't really
care if anything succeeds anymore; I just like to be in the process of trying.''

Another Round: For more than six months now, ''The Girl on the Train,'' by Paula
Hawkins, has hovered near the top of the fiction best-Â­seller list. The Daily
Beast said it might be ''the fastest-selling adult novel in history,'' which its
publisher, Riverhead, chalks up to strong reviews and word of mouth, not to
mention an exceptionally crafty story: a very unreliable narrator -- a
hard-drinking woman prone to blackouts -- thinks she might have witnessed an act
of violence.

One wonders, though, if the popularity of ''The Girl on the Train'' might also
owe something to how it's keyed to a larger discussion about young professional
women and alcohol. ''The more educated and well off a woman is, the more likely
she is to imbibe,'' Ann Dowsett Johnston wrote in ''Drink: The Intimate
Relationship Between Women and Alcohol,'' part of a fleet of recent books on the
subject, including ''Her Best-Kept Secret,'' by Gabrielle Glaser; ''Drunk Mom,''
by Jowita Bydlowska; and ''Blackout,'' by Sarah Hepola, which hit
No.â[#x20ac]¯15 on the nonfiction list earlier this month.

''I did not think of myself as a 'woman drinker,' '' Hepola said in a recent
interview with The Rumpus. ''I would have bristled at those words, the way I
bristle at 'woman writer,' because drinking is an equal-Â­opportunity pursuit.''
But when she got into recovery, something changed. ''I was noticing all the ways
women spoke differently about their drinking than men,'' she said, ''and I was
reflecting, probably for the first time in life, on why drinking had been so
seductive to me as a female of the species: body-image issues, fear of not being
hot enough or sexually liberated enough, fear of being too shy or sensitive or
timid with my opinions, a terrible envy of other women. A lot of female stuff.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/inside-the-list.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FICTION LITERATURE (77%); NON
FICTION LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%)

PERSON: AMY SCHUMER (78%); CHRIS ROCK (58%); JERRY SEINFELD (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cloak and Dagger and Farce

BYLINE: By J. HOBERMAN

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1367 words


A French comedy that treats the invasion of privacy as a condition of modern
life, ''The Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe'' (on Blu-ray and DVD from Film
Movement) may be even more topical now than when it was released in 1972.

Directed by Yves Robert from a script by Francis Veber, who later wrote the
screenplay for ''La Cage Aux Folles,'' ''The Tall Blond Man'' has a premise that
might be termed Kafka lite. The protagonist, François, is an ungainly but not
unattractive first chair violinist (the popular farceur Pierre Richard, likened
by the critic Nick Pinkerton in the disc's accompanying notes to Danny Kaye). He
is selected at random as a pawn in the bureaucratic death struggle between rival
factions in the French intelligence agency and, mistaken for a secret agent,
goes about his business, oblivious to his total surveillance amid a mounting
body count.

Gheorghe Zamfir's sprightly panpiping gives ''The Tall Blond Man'' the feel of a
fable. An international success, the movie occasioned a 1974 sequel and, 11
years later, a Hollywood remake, ''The Man With One Red Shoe,'' starring Tom
Hanks, that, as dryly noted by the New York Times reviewer Janet Maslin, ''loses
a lot in translation.'' Or so it would seem. ''The Tall Blond Man'' takes
espionage less seriously than Hollywood might, as it is equally a bedroom farce.

Agents working out of a commercial van parked on a busy Paris street eavesdrop
on François's afternoon tryst with a colleague's frisky wife, Paulette (Colette
Castel). ''Do the horse,'' she implores him -- leaving us to wonder what sexual
practice she has in mind. The plot thickens once her husband, Maurice (the
professional hangdog Jean Carmet), overhears the audiotape when his bicycle is
stuck in traffic behind the van.

A zippy 90 minutes, ''The Tall Blond Man'' is distinguished by back-to-back set
pieces. The first, with echoes of Alfred Hitchcock and the Marx Brothers, is a
disastrous concert performance during which François, Maurice and Paulette, all
musicians in the same orchestra, allow their distraction to get the best of them
(even while providing further confusion for the various intelligence agents in
the audience).

François lurches from the concert hall into a honey-trap, with Mireille Darc
(best known as the petulant bourgeois wife in Jean-Luc Godard's ''Weekend'')
serving as expertly accommodating bait. In addition to Ms. Darc, wearing the
ultimate backless gown, the slapstick seduction involves a convertible sofa, a
mis-zipped zipper and an unpredictably tumescent bagpipe -- antics monitored on
closed-circuit TV by a transfixed gaggle of spies. (The movie is humorously
suggestive throughout, although sometimes a cigar is just an exploding cigar.)

Mr. Robert, a former nightclub performer who died in 2002, casts himself as
François and company's frustrated conductor. His cameo is more than appropriate.
Briskly paced and exceedingly droll, ''The Tall Blond Man'' is nothing if not
well orchestrated.

'The Man from U.N.C.L.E.: Season 1'

''The Tall Blond Man'' ends with an allusion to the French penal code: ''Every
person is entitled to the respect of his/her private life,'' an entitlement
regularly violated on American TV by ''The Man From U.N.C.L.E.'' The ancillary
misadventures of an innocent, usually female, bystander caught in inexplicable
espionage shenanigans was a staple of this semi-parodic James Bond knockoff,
which ran on NBC from late 1964 into 1968.

The show's first season, filmed in black and white and released by Warner Bros.
on 10 DVDs to coincide with the current movie adaptation, is an engaging
artifact of mid-'60s insouciance. Making its debut six weeks after the Gulf of
Tonkin incident set the table for the Vietnam War, ''U.N.C.L.E.'' may not have
been the most sophisticated program on TV, but it did strike this 15-year-old
viewer as the coolest.

Napoleon Solo, top agent for the United Network Command for Law Enforcement
(which received deadpan acknowledgment in the show's closing credits), was
embodied by the humorously smug Robert Vaughn; his sidekick, the daring
pre-détente Russian Ilya Kuryakin, played with a modified Beatle haircut by the
Scottish actor David McCallum, was a super-rational alien, predating Mr. Spock
by two seasons. Their unflappable British supervisor, Leo G. Carroll, had a
similar role in 1959 in Hitchcock's ''North by Northwest'' (the precursor of all
Kafka lite spy films).

''The Man from U.N.C.L.E.'' was unabashedly cosmopolitan (the opening shot of
the United Nations building suggested that U.N.C.L.E., with headquarters
concealed behind the dressing room of a brownstone basement tailor shop, was an
adjunct of the world organization). It was also totally mod, if that's the term
for the show's flashy computers, weaponized lasers and pistol-packing
secretaries.

Jet-setting between the Upper East Side and the third world, Solo and Kuryakin
deploy TV phones, karate and wisecracks to thwart plots for planetary
domination. In ''The Double Affair'' (telecast two weeks after Lyndon Johnson
thumped Barry Goldwater), Solo deploys an expertly palmed bobby pin to save the
world from total destruction.

''U.N.C.L.E.'' baffled some critics at first. (''You couldn't tell whether they
were playing it for satire or for real,'' Variety's reviewer complained.) But
the show caught on after the outrageous Bond movie ''Goldfinger'' opened in
December 1964. That United Artists subsequently rereleased ''Goldfinger'' on a
double bill with ''A Hard Day's Night'' encapsulates the appeal of
''U.N.C.L.E.'' No less than John, Paul, George and Ringo, Mr. McCallum was a
teenage heartthrob.

The U.N.C.L.E. girls, who included Zohra Lampert and Mr. McCallum's wife at the
time, Jill Ireland, were also notably cute and kooky. One episode is a veritable
showcase for Barbara Feldon, soon to emerge as television's It Girl in the
series ''Get Smart'' and to make Pop Art history as rendered by Andy Warhol for
the cover of TV Guide.

NEWLY RELEASED

CITIZENFOUR Winner of the 2014 Oscar for best documentary, Laura Poitras's
portrait of Edward Snowden is both a journalistic scoop and a political
manifesto. ''Thinking about the issues Ms. Poitras raises can induce a kind of
epistemological vertigo,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times in October.
''What do we know about what is known about us? Who knows it? Can we trust them?
These questions are terrifying, and so is 'Citizenfour.' '' Out on Blu-ray, DVD
and Amazon Instant Video. (Anchor Bay)

THE KIDNAPPING OF MICHEL HOUELLEBECQ Publicity stunt or meta-publicity stunt?
The provocative French writer restages his alleged disappearance for the camera
in Guillaume Nicloux's fake documentary, now on DVD and Amazon Instant Video.
''The heaviness of the real world isn't evident on screen; it just swirls around
'The Kidnapping,' seeping through the cracks and into your consciousness,''
Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times in March. (Kino Lorber)

THE ROYALS: THE COMPLETE FIRST SEASON Resplendent in mascara and lip gloss,
Elizabeth Hurley plays the queen of England in the E! channel's pseudo reality
show, now out on DVD. '' 'The Royals' is a mischievous sendup, a 'Dynasty' about
a real dynasty, and Ms. Hurley is quite amusing as she sashays across the marble
halls of Buckingham Palace, making catty remarks to servile courtiers,''
Alessandra Stanley wrote in The Times in March. (Lionsgate)

STATE OF SIEGE Costa-Gavras dramatizes C.I.A. counterinsurgency in Latin America
in a movie, written with Franco Solinas and starring Yves Montand as an abducted
United States official. The movie appeared in 1972, the year before a coup
toppled Chile's president, Salvador Allende. Reviewing ''State of Siege'' for
The Times, Vincent Canby called it ''an angry muckraker of a film.'' Available
on Blu-ray, DVD and Amazon Instant Video. (Criterion)

''X'': THE MAN WITH THE X-RAY EYES A mad ophthalmologist, Ray Milland, doctors
his eyes to perceive more than any human was ever meant to see in Roger Corman's
1963 horror film. Grimly metaphysical, the movie features a great Las Vegas
casino scene and a vivid supporting turn by the insult comedian Don Rickles. On
Blu-ray and DVD. (Kino Lorber)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/movies/the-tall-blond-man-with-one-black-shoe-
cloak-and-dagger-and-farce.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pierre Richard in Yves Robert's ''The Tall Blond Man With One
Black Shoe'' (1972). (PHOTOGRAPH BY FILM MOVEMENT/GAUMONT) (AR9)
 Robert Vaughn as Napoleon Solo in the 1964-68 TV series ''The Man From
U.N.C.L.E.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TURNER TELEVISION LIBRARY) (AR12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ESPIONAGE
(88%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE
FILMS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MUSIC (75%);
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (65%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC
(61%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: PIERRE RICHARD (73%); TOM HANKS (58%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (58%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Before Trump or Fiorina, There Was Willkie

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BESCHLOSS.

Michael Beschloss, a presidential historian, is the author of nine books and a
contributor to NBC News and ''PBS NewsHour.'' Follow him on Twitter at
@BeschlossDC.

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; HISTORYSOURCE;
Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1207 words


If either Donald Trump or Carly Fiorina receives the 2016 Republication
presidential nomination, it will be a rare achievement. Only once in American
history has a major political party granted its prize to someone whose principal
qualification was to have served as a corporate chief executive. That was in
1940, when Wendell Willkie was the Republican candidate against President
Franklin Roosevelt, who was seeking a third term.

''I'm in business and proud of it,'' the 48-year-old Willkie told a Nebraska
crowd that spring. ''Nobody can make me soft-pedal any fact in my business
career. After all, business is our way of life, our achievement, our glory.''

Willkie's political fate, however, did not ultimately turn on his record as
president of the Commonwealth & Southern, a large electric utilities holding
company based in New York. In the late 1930s, Willkie's modest national fame
grew mainly out of his public criticism of Roosevelt's New Deal programs, which
he said overregulated industries such as his own.

Born in the small town of Elwood, Ind., the well-read, bighearted, chain-smoking
Willkie was a lawyer. Before his promotion to chief executive, he had been the
company's counsel. Until 1939, he had been a registered Democrat; he changed his
party affiliation without fanfare. After Willkie made known his intention to run
for president, James E. Watson, a Republican and former United States senator
from Indiana, warned him that it would be difficult for a party switcher to be
nominated. Watson said that in their home state, ''It's all right if the town
whore joins the church, but they don't let her lead the choir the first night.''

The chief relevance of Willkie's background running a company seemed to be the
degree to which it validated his leadership stature and his strong views on the
American economy. But during the 1940 campaign the overwhelming issue was not
economics but national security. Hitler's forces were marching across Europe.

Republican contenders like Senator Robert Taft of Ohio and Thomas Dewey, a young
district attorney from New York, were considerably isolationist in their views.
By contrast, Willkie supported much of the president's call to strengthen
America's defenses after the outbreak of war in Europe and to contemplate aiding
a beleaguered Britain. Leaders of the Republican Party's Northeastern,
internationalist wing saw him as an answer to their prayers. In June, as
Americans witnessed the fall of France, Willkie Clubs sprang up across the
country. The publisher Henry Luce used his magazines Time, Life and Fortune to
help turn Willkie into a national celebrity.

Soon Willkie was leading in national polls. Arriving in the convention city of
Philadelphia, he boasted that he had been personally covering his travel and
telephone expenses and said that if nominated, ''I will be under obligation to
nobody except the people.'' He won the nomination on the sixth ballot, vaulting
over Taft and Dewey.

Willkie, who resided in an apartment on Fifth Avenue in New York, sought to make
himself more voter-friendly by returning to Elwood for his formal acceptance
speech. He also patched things up -- at least for the campaign's duration --
with his wife, Edith, from whom he had grown distant. Of her smiling public
appearances with her newly nominated husband, Mrs. Willkie reputedly noted in
private that ''politics makes strange bedfellows.'' In the Oval Office,
Roosevelt accidentally recorded himself asking operatives to publicize what
would now be called ''opposition research'' on Willkie's secret paramour, Irita
Van Doren, who was The New York Herald Tribune's book editor.

Willkie would have preferred to fight the 1940 campaign over the president's
managerial deficiencies and what he argued was the failure of New Deal
economics, noting that more than a decade after the start of the Great
Depression unemployment stood at almost 15 percent. But by September 1940, the
Germans were bombing London. Willkie was, therefore, forced to argue that he
would make a better commander in chief than Roosevelt during a time of possible
global war.

Willkie issued no public objection to the president's controversial decisions to
seek a peacetime military draft and provide destroyers to Winston Churchill's
wartime government. But aghast at his sagging poll numbers, Willkie then decided
to do what it might take to win; he began feigning a strong streak of
isolationism.

For example, in St. Louis he proclaimed that if elected president, he would not
send American troops to Europe, adding that if Roosevelt were re-elected he
believed they would be sent. (After the election, Willkie dismissed another of
his campaign claims, that Roosevelt would have the country enmeshed in war by
April 1941, as ''a bit of campaign oratory.'')

Many Americans feared involvement in another world war, and Willkie's
opportunism almost worked. In late October, The New York Times reported that his
''antiwar psychology'' had brought him ''within easy striking distance of
victory.'' But that November, the issue was whether Hitler and the imperial
Japanese might rule the world, and Willkie, with his business experience, seemed
no match for the long-seasoned incumbent. He received 44.8 percent of the
popular vote, compared with Roosevelt's 54.7.

After his defeat, Willkie shed his isolationism as quickly as he had donned it.
When he ran again for president in 1944, Republicans spurned him as an apostate.
Denounced to his face during a donors' luncheon as ''America's leading
ingrate,'' Willkie replied: ''I don't give a damn. You're a bunch of political
liabilities anyway.'' That October, he died of coronary thrombosis at 52.

Since then, the two major parties have seldom sought out C.E.O.s for the White
House. Some political consultants tried and failed to draft Lee Iacocca to run
for president as a Democrat, on the heels of his best-selling autobiography,
which described his success in reviving the Chrysler Corporation. In February
1992, the businessman H. Ross Perot pledged on the CNN program ''Larry King
Live'' to attack the national deficit if he ran as an independent candidate,
saying, ''My strength is creating jobs and fixing things.'' A Gallup poll that
June found Mr. Perot running ahead of the major party candidates, George H. W.
Bush and Bill Clinton. That November, after closing down (he later said he
feared political ''dirty tricks'') and then resuming his campaign, Mr. Perot won
19 percent of the popular vote. More recently, in 2012, Republicans nominated
Mitt Romney, a founder and C.E.O. of Bain Capital who had also served as
governor of Massachusetts.

Unlike Mr. Romney, the C.E.O.s running for president in this election can wear
their lack of political office-holding experience as a badge of honor that shows
their distance from what many Americans now consider to be a dysfunctional
system. Wendell Willkie, who was caught in the accelerating crosswinds of world
war, had no such advantage, and would no doubt be astonished to see how the
chief executive card is now being played.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/upshot/before-trump-or-fiorina-there-was-wende
ll-willkie.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wendell Willkie was the only major-party presidential nominee
whose experience came principally from running a business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
POPPERFOTO/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012
(91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); HOLDING
COMPANIES (76%); CELEBRITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); GREAT
DEPRESSION (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES
(53%); SMOKING (51%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: CARLY FIORINA (92%); DONALD TRUMP (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Zoelene Hill, Squire Servance

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 217 words


Zoelene Valenzuela Hill and Squire Jonathan Servance were married Saturday at
the Memorial Hall of the Please Touch Museum in Philadelphia. Bishop David G.
Evans, a Baptist minister, officiated.

The bride, 31, is a candidate for a Ph.D. in public policy at Duke. She
graduated from Princeton and has a master's in education policy and management
from Harvard.

She is the daughter of Dulce V. Hill and Samuel B. Hill of Trenton. The bride's
father, who is retired, ran Blama International Trading, a small shipping
business in Trenton that sent relief items to his home country, Liberia, during
its second civil war. Her mother is an auditor in Trenton for the New Jersey
Department of Transportation.

The groom, 33, is a senior associate at the Philadelphia law firm Morgan, Lewis
& Bockius, working on intellectual property law. He graduated from Rutgers and
has a law degree and an M.B.A. from Duke.

He is a son of Sandra J. Squire and Sylvester Servance of Sicklerville, N.J. The
groom's mother retired as an administrative judge in Philadelphia for the United
States Merit Systems Protection Board, which handles cases for federal
employees. His father, who is also retired, managed finances for a
medical-practice building in Washington, then operated by Metropolitan
Ambulatory Care Associates.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/zoelene-hill-and-squire-serva
nce.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE MASH SYKES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HEALTH
CARE (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
(53%)

COMPANY: MORGAN LEWIS & BOCKIUS LLP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Neglecting to Name the Names

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words


How can we expect Wall Street's me-first culture to change when regulators won't
pursue or even identify the me-firsters who are directly involved?

That question came to mind after reading the terms of a settlement struck on
Aug. 17 between the Securities and Exchange Commission and two units of
Citigroup. It is a deal that holds no one at the bank accountable for behavior
that caused investors to lose an estimated $2 billion.

The settlement involved a disastrous municipal bond strategy the bank concocted
and peddled to 4,000 wealthy clients from 2002 until early 2008. It was sold to
investors as a safe-money option, even though it used considerable leverage,
which always brings hazards when assets decline.

The S.E.C. contended that officials at Citi did not disclose the risks in the
investment strategy. ''Advisers at these Citigroup affiliates were supposed to
be looking out for investors' best interests but falsely assured them they were
making safe investments even when the funds were on the brink of disaster,''
said Andrew Ceresney, chief of enforcement at the S.E.C., when the settlement
was announced.

Citigroup will pay $180 million in the settlement, most of which will be
distributed to wronged investors. The bank neither admitted nor denied the
S.E.C.'s allegations. A spokesman said the bank was pleased to have resolved the
matter.

A $180 million deal is significant as far as these kinds of settlements go. But
the S.E.C. is limited -- it is permitted only to go after ill-gotten gains. It
may not pursue compensatory damages for investor losses.

Among Citi's clients, those losses were substantial. And the bank has privately
paid $726 million to compensate investors for some of them. The additional
recoveries generated from the S.E.C.'s settlement will be nominal.

The S.E.C. case also comes more than seven years after the Citigroup investment
strategy imploded. Unfortunately, six years is the time limit given to clients
wishing to bring an arbitration case. So the facts laid out in the S.E.C.'s
complaint against Citi are of no help to any investor who had not yet sued to
recover from the bank.

Most disturbing, though, is the settlement's lack of accountability. As is all
too common, Citigroup's shareholders are footing the $180 million bill
associated with it. But they didn't devise the toxic bond strategy, sell it or
hide its risks to investors.

That was the work of Citi employees, as the S.E.C.'s order makes clear. Indeed,
it contains chapter and verse about the crucial role played by the fund manager
overseeing these investments. Some 50 references to actions taken by the fund
manager and his staff are contained in the order.

For example: ''The fund manager and the fund manager's staff played a
significant role in drafting and disseminating information regarding the funds
to investors and financial advisers without sufficient review or oversight to
ensure that the information given to investors was accurate.''

And ''the fund manager was involved in virtually all fund-related communications
with the financial advisers and investors.''

Yet the S.E.C. never identifies who this central player was.

The S.E.C. has come under fire before for settlements like this one. In 2011, it
faced intense criticism over another Citigroup settlement from Jed S. Rakoff, a
federal judge in New York. That case involved toxic mortgage securities that
generated more than $700 million in investor losses.

Unhappy with that settlement, Judge Rakoff said, ''A consent judgment that does
not involve any admissions and that results in only very modest penalties is
just as frequently viewed, particularly in the business community, as a cost of
doing business imposed by having to maintain a working relationship with a
regulatory agency, rather than as any indication of where the real truth lies.''

Speaking of truth, I asked Mr. Ceresney of the S.E.C. why the regulator did not
identify or pursue the Citi fund manager who was all over the settlement order.

Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Ceresney said he could not comment on an individual
case. But in a statement provided on Thursday, he said, ''The S.E.C. has
aggressively held companies and their senior officers accountable for misconduct
during the financial crisis, charging 181 companies and individuals, including
73 C.E.O.s, C.F.O.s and other senior corporate officers, obtaining more than
$3.7 billion in monetary relief.''

The mystery man behind those Citi investments was Reaz Islam, a former managing
director of the bank's fixed income alternatives group. Mr. Islam left Citi in
2008; he is chief executive of L-R Managers L.L.C., an investment firm in New
York.

When Mr. Islam testified in an investor arbitration brought against Citigroup in
June 2012, it emerged that Citi paid him more than $10 million during the years
he ran the funds.

Mr. Islam did not respond to a telephone message and an email seeking comment.
But a website featuring Mr. Islam identifies him as a ''seasoned investment
professional.'' His ''can-do attitude, inquisitiveness, sharp investment and
business acumen made him an excellent fit at Citigroup from the start,'' the
website says.

According to Mr. Islam's regulatory record, 46 Citi customers have filed
complaints against him. Four are pending; the rest have generated civil
judgments or arbitration awards paid by the bank totaling $22.4 million. In all
of those cases, Citigroup denied the allegations.

Philip Aidikoff, a lawyer at Aidikoff, Uhl & Bakhtiari in Beverly Hills, Calif.,
and Steven B. Caruso a lawyer at Maddox Hargett & Caruso, have represented 125
investors against Citi involving its ill-conceived municipal bond strategy. They
received settlement payments in all but three of their cases, including a
remarkable $54.1 million settlement paid to two investors in 2011.

Mr. Caruso and an associate also met with the S.E.C. in February 2009 and
provided the regulator with thousands of pages of documents relating to the Citi
investment strategy.

Reading the S.E.C.'s recent order six years later, the lawyers said they were
astonished that Mr. Islam was neither identified nor pursued.

''They say this guy caused billions of dollars in losses, and they do nothing
with him?'' Mr. Caruso asked. ''He was absolutely the mastermind, there is no
doubt about that.''

Mr. Aidikoff agreed. ''It's easy for Citi to write a $180 million check,'' he
said. ''When you have the folks who not only designed this program but ran it
and ran it into the ground -- why aren't they being named?''

That really is one of the burning questions of our time.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/business/sec-settlement-with-citigroup-holds-n
o-one-responsible.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DAMAGES (77%); LITIGATION
(77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%);
ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE
(70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giants Have Rough Night but See a Sliver of Hope

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 883 words


EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. --  Saturday did not begin well for the Giants. When a
team's extensive injury list lengthens during a leisurely pregame warm-up, it
figures to be a long day.

In keeping with a theme of the preseason, the starting defensive end Robert
Ayers injured his ankle and lower leg as he was preparing to play against the
Jets. The Giants were already missing seven projected starters, including two,
defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul and left tackle Will Beatty, who were lost
before training camp opened.

Then Saturday's game started, and things really turned bleak.

The Giants' first seven offensive plays netted 8 yards. There were penalties, a
sack of quarterback Eli Manning and dropped passes.

On defense, the Giants were manhandled, too. The Jets scored a touchdown on
their second possession, the first points in an easy 28-18 victory in the third
preseason game for each team. The Jets also returned an interception and a punt
for touchdowns.

''Inconsistency and penalties,'' Giants Coach Tom Coughlin said in assessing his
team's play. ''It's not real complicated.''

Of Ayers's injury, Coughlin shook his head and said: ''He's out there pregame,
and all of a sudden, he's on the ground complaining about his ankle, about his
Achilles' heel and whatever. I really don't know.''

Coughlin said he had been given no diagnosis of Ayers's injury and did not offer
a prognosis.

For all the early gloom enveloping the Giants -- and there was plenty as Jets
quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick was almost never pressured in the pocket and the
Jets ran the ball effectively -- the Giants did rebound in the second quarter.

The starting offense, which was in the game for only two quarters, mounted at
least one impressive touchdown drive. The rest of the game, and indeed the
concluding sequence of the first half, was mostly more bad news for the Giants.
Still, for roughly eight minutes, the Giants showed some promise. There was even
another Odell Beckham Jr. receiving highlight.

The scoring drive began with the Giants determined to establish some balance in
their play calling. Running back Rashad Jennings had a series of power runs,
some of them behind the right side of the Giants' offensive line, which had
struggled during the team's first two preseason games, when the starters scored
just 3 points.

After the early running plays, Manning picked up a first down with a short pass
to Preston Parker and then connected with Beckham on successive passes that
gained 13 yards. On another play, when the Jets jumped offside before the snap,
Manning used the opportunity to loft a pass in Beckham's direction deep down the
right sideline. Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis was step for step with Beckham, a
second-year wide receiver, who leapt over Revis, deflecting the ball with one
hand to make a circus catch. But Beckham landed with one foot out of bounds,
nullifying the reception.

Beckham's acrobatics nonetheless seemed to rally the Giants.

On the next play, a pass to the Giants' new pass-catching threat out of the
backfield, Shane Vereen, gained 19 yards -- with Beckham making a key block on
the outside of the formation.

Manning found the reserve tight end Adrien Robinson on a seam route for 5 yards,
and then Robinson drew a pass-interference penalty.

Jennings carried the ball on the next three plays and rumbled for 20 yards. A
defensive holding penalty on the Jets put the ball at the 1-yard line, and
Jennings bulled his way into the end zone, the Giants' 14th play of an 85-yard
drive.

''We were able to get into a rhythm,'' Jennings said. ''That 14-play drive is
what this offense needed. We can look at it on tape and build off of this.''

Manning, who completed 12 of 16 passes for 91 yards, said of the drive: ''That's
the way it's supposed to be done. We had a couple of nice third-down conversions
-- some short passes that went a long way.''

If the drive imbued the Giants with confidence and a positive mind-set, it might
have been best had the starting offense never played another down Saturday.

But the Giants certainly need to work on their two-minute offense as well, and
with 57 seconds remaining in the first half, the Giants took possession with
good field position, at their own 42.

The first play ended with a sack as Manning held the ball while waiting to find
an open receiver. Generally, the Giants' remodeled offensive line protected
Manning well Saturday. The next play was a false start by left guard Justin
Pugh, his second penalty of the half.

Manning completed two short passes, but with 19 seconds left in the half, he
tried to force a pass to wide receiver James Jones. Not only was Jones not open,
but Manning had been staring at him from the beginning of the play.

Jets cornerback Antonio Cromartie stepped in front of Jones for an interception
that he returned 59 yards for a touchdown.

''Some good and some bad,'' Manning said later.

Of the interception, Manning said, ''We can't have that.''

By the game's end, Coughlin confirmed what had already appeared a certainty.
While some N.F.L. coaches sit their starters for the final preseason game to
avoid injuries, the Giants' starters, though banged up, will be playing in the
final preseason tuneup next week at New England.

There is much progress still to be made.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/football/giants-see-a-sliver-of-hope-du
ring-a-shattered-night.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tight end Jerome Cunningham was unable to make a catch. The
Giants plan to use their starters in their preseason finale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN
SOLOMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); SPORTS INJURIES (90%); ATHLETES (88%); SPORTS
INSTRUCTION (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (91%)

PERSON: ELI MANNING (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Single Bound

BYLINE: By MEKADO MURPHY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 967 words


Independent film for decades has been seen as a way for directors to hold the
greatest creative control over their projects. They work with meager means to
create something close to their hearts, without the crushing pressure for it to
be a global financial success. But having little or no cash to make art can be
difficult, so many directors see indies as a steppingstone to the mainstream, a
calling card to show studios how their intimate ideas could translate to
big-budget projects. That may mean making a number of small films, then a climb
up the studio ladder.

But for more directors, that leap is coming faster, from one or two indies with
budgets under $1 million to tent-pole franchises with budgets over $100 million.
Some directors have made no previous features (Joseph Kosinski, ''Tron: Legacy''
in 2010) or have made a small film for a studio that was a hit (Josh Trank,
''Chronicle'' in 2012 and this summer's much less successful ''Fantastic Four''
reboot).

The indie-to-franchise trend has met with some industry skepticism, because it
seems to work only to the advantage of men and not women. Yet there are
qualities in these artists' work that may suit them to films on a larger scale.
(And there are certainly a number of female directors for which these qualities
would also hold true.) So what do the studios see in these smaller films that
lead them to hand over the keys to, say, a new ''Spider-Man?'' Here is a look at
four directors, the films that put them on the map and what can be found in each
that might have propelled them from the art house to the multiplex.

MARC WEBB

THE FRANCHISE In 2012, Mr. Webb reinvented the Spider-Man franchise.He brought
on Andrew Garfield (in place of Tobey Maguire, who wore the suit in the early
aughts) and, at least at first, delivered a lighter touch to the material and
the relationship between Peter Parker and Gwen Stacy (Emma Stone). Those two
charming performers made the acting as interesting as the action.

THE INDIE  Mr. Webb was primarily directing music videos before he made ''(500)
Days of Summer'' in 2009. The film features Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Zooey
Deschanel (as the Summer of the title) and plays out various stages of a
relationship, from its bright moments to its bitter end.

THE CONNECTION  This sly twist on the romantic comedy draws from a well of
cinema influences, including Fellini, Woody Allen and Hollywood musicals. It
packs a surprising amount of visual invention into an indie, and that may be
what Sony execs saw when they considered who could inject new life into their
franchise. His ability to smartly direct two young stars with a Peter
Parker/Gwen Stacy-esque glimmer in their eyes probably didn't hurt.

COLIN TREVORROW

THE FRANCHISES Mr. Trevorrow is one of the year's success stories. He helmed
''Jurassic World''(above), a hit that has made over $639 million domestically,
and has been announced to direct ''Star Wars: Episode IX.''

THE INDIE His 2012 ''Safety Not Guaranteed'' involves a magazine intern (Aubrey
Plaza) chasing a story about Kenneth (Mark Duplass), who places an ad seeking a
companion in time travel.

THE CONNECTION ''Safety'' is anchored by the comic performances of Mr. Duplass
and Ms. Plaza, a mismatched team that stays grounded as the film's premise
develops. Mr. Trevorrow guides both the far-out concept and the relationship in
an entertaining way, and the odd-couple pairing resembles that of Chris Pratt
and Bryce Dallas Howard in ''Jurassic World.'' Grounded relationships and a
narrative focus are quite Spielbergian, and they were probably qualities the
''Jurassic'' executive producer Steven Spielberg saw when considering Mr.
Trevorrow to direct.

GARETH EDWARDS

THE FRANCHISES Mr. Edwards had a stomping hit in 2014 with the reboot of
''Godzilla,'' which had a solid $200 million domestic gross. He is now working
on the ''Star Wars'' spinoff ''Rogue One,'' which will focus on a group trying
to steal the plans for the Death Star.

THE INDIE  With a laptop and some intuition, Mr. Edwards built the visual
effects for his 2010 creature feature ''Monsters'' on his own. The story is set
in the aftermath of an extraterrestrial invasion of monsters and also, like the
other indies on this list, involves a budding romance between its human leads
(Scoot McNairy and Whitney Able, above).

THE CONNECTION Mr. Edwards generates inventive visual effects with his low
budget, while using a less is more approach to showing off his creatures. That
economy is seen in ''Godzilla'' as well, a movie that takes its time in focusing
on story and relationships long before the giant lizard reveal.

JON WATTS

THE FRANCHISE The popularity of ''Spider-Man'' is epitomized with another reboot
of the franchise, as the web-slinger rejoins the Marvel Universe after the
company struck a deal with Sony. Mr. Watts will direct, and Tom Holland (''The
Impossible'') will star in 2017.

THE INDIES Mr. Watts has made two small features: the horror film ''Clown,''
which began as a fake trailer and morphed into a feature; and the 2015 gritty
B-movie-style drama ''Cop Car,'' with Kevin Bacon (above) as a crooked sheriff.
Only ''Cop Car'' has received a domestic release.

THE CONNECTION ''Cop Car'' hinges on a compelling narrative that starts out as a
mystery, then as more is revealed, becomes a character-driven thriller. Because
of the strength of Mr. Bacon's villainous performance and the emphasis on the
dark side in both ''Cop Car'' and ''Clown,'' Marvel may be seeking to take the
new ''Spider-Man'' in a more intense direction and sees Mr. Watts as a smart
choice to navigate those darker waters. He also knows how to deliver a thrill
and ratchet up the tension in creative ways, skills that are useful for any
director charged with revitalizing a franchise.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/movies/from-indie-to-franchise-in-a-single-bou
nd.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GONZALO FUENTES/REUTERS
JAIMIE TRUEBLOOD/COLUMBIA PICTURES
UNIVERSAL PICTURES
TERESA KROEGER/GETTY IMAGES
MAGNET RELEASING
EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 FOCUS WORLD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FILM GENRES (78%); COMEDY FILMS
(73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); FRANCHISING (69%); MUSIC (65%)

PERSON: ZOOEY DESCHANEL (79%); EMMA STONE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Optimistic About Inflation, Fischer Suggests That Fed Will Stick to Plan on
Rates

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 712 words


JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. --  The Federal Reserve's vice chairman, Stanley Fischer,
said on Saturday that he saw ''good reason'' to expect that inflation would
rebound to a healthier pace as the American economy continued to grow.

The remarks, delivered at an annual conference hosted by the Federal Reserve
Bank of Kansas City, reinforced other recent indications that the Fed remained
on course to raise interest rates this year. Mr. Fischer said on Friday that the
Fed's policy-making committee would consider acting when it meets in September,
adding that economic conditions in the United States were approaching the
standards the Fed has said would be necessary for it to raise rates.

His remarks on Saturday were highly anticipated after days of turmoil in
financial markets that raised questions about whether the Fed's plans had
changed. Mr. Fischer, an important adviser to the Fed's chairwoman, Janet L.
Yellen, was also stepping into a void created by Ms. Yellen's decision not to
attend this year's Jackson Hole meeting.

The Fed said after its meeting in July that it wanted to see ''some further
improvement in the labor market'' before raising rates. The next week, the Labor
Department announced that the economy had added an estimated 215,000 jobs in
July. ''We now await the results of the August employment survey,'' Mr. Fischer
said on Saturday, ''which are due to be published on Sept. 4.''

As for inflation, the Fed has said repeatedly that it will act based not on
observed inflation but instead on its expectations for future inflation. The Fed
exerts gradual influence on economic conditions, so officials must set interest
rates on the basis of their expectations about developments.

The Fed's preferred measure of inflation shows that prices rose 0.3 percent
during the 12 months ending in July, well below the 2 percent annual pace the
Fed considers healthy. A narrower measure excluding food and oil prices, which
the Fed regards as more predictive, increased 1.2 percent over that same period.

Inflation by both measures has stayed below 2 percent for more than three years.

Some outside economists -- and a few Fed officials -- argue that the central
bank should not raise interest rates until inflation returns to an annual pace
of 2 percent, the Fed's declared target. Lower inflation limits the Fed's
ability to respond to economic downturns. It also can slow growth by making
debts harder to repay and by impeding adjustments in wages and prices.

These economists also see low inflation as evidence that the economy continues
to operate below capacity, suggesting that the Fed can safely continue its
stimulus campaign -- and perhaps should be doing even more.

Mr. Fischer said on Saturday that the impact of economic slack might be
overstated, noting that conditions had undoubtedly improved but inflation had
not rebounded.

He pointed to evidence that the strength of the dollar was a major culprit. As
the American economy grows and the rest of the world struggles, the dollar has
gained value in comparison with foreign currencies. Americans are buying more
cheap imports, holding down the cost of living, while American companies are
struggling to sell exports, putting a damper on economic growth.

These headwinds, Mr. Fischer said, were beginning to subside.

''Given the apparent stability of inflation expectations, there is good reason
to believe that inflation will move higher as the forces holding down inflation
dissipate further,'' he said. ''While some effects of the rise in the dollar may
be spread over time, some of the effects on inflation are likely already
starting to fade.''

Even so, Mr. Fischer declined to deliver an explicit verdict on September.

''I will not, and indeed cannot, tell you what decision the Fed will reach Sept.
17,'' he said, referring to the date of the Fed's next policy meeting.

Mr. Fischer and other officials have said the Fed might delay an increase
because of the turmoil in financial markets even if domestic economic conditions
are ripe.

Officials say they are not inclined to act in the face of volatility, in part
because they see little practical difference between moving in September and
waiting a little longer. The Fed is also scheduled to meet in October and
December.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/business/optimistic-about-inflation-stanley-fi
scher-suggests-that-fed-will-stick-to-plan-on-rates.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%);
CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PRICES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%);
PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONFERENCES
& CONVENTIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%);
PRICE CHANGES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL
RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: JANET YELLEN (79%)

STATE: WYOMING, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jaclyn Faneuil, Matthew Gorman

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 198 words


Jaclyn Mara Faneuil, a daughter of Leslie S. Faneuil and Robert A. Faneuil of
Needham, Mass., was married Saturday to Matthew David Gorman, a son of Susan G.
Gorman and Michael P. Gorman of Macedon, N.Y. Rabbi David B. Kudan officiated at
the Liberty Hotel in Boston.

The bride, 27, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a human
resources project manager in the consumer and community banking department at
JPMorgan Chase & Company. She graduated from Cornell.

Her father is a counselor in the member services department of the Massachusetts
Board of Retirement, in Boston. Her mother is an administrative assistant in the
Brookline, Mass., office of Hammond Residential, a real estate company.

The groom, 30, is an associate in employment law in the New York office of
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati. He also graduated from Cornell, though the
couple didn't meet until several years after both had graduated, when Ms.
Faneuil saw Mr. Gorman's picture on JDate, the dating website aimed at Jewish
singles. He received a law degree from N.Y.U.

His mother is a clerk for the town court in Macedon. His father is the manager
of the Monroe-Gorman Title Agency in Lyons, N.Y.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/jaclyn-mara-faneuil-matthew-d
avid-gorman.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BIG APPLE PORTRAITS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (87%); COURTSHIP &
DATING (78%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); CLERGY &
RELIGIOUS (72%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); REAL ESTATE
(68%); DATING SERVICES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

COMPANY: WILSON SONSINI GOODRICH & ROSATI PC (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%);
WILSON SONSINI GOODRICH & ROSATI (69%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%);
NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS
FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%);
SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Les Misérables' Actor, 21, Dies in Brooklyn Accident

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 599 words


Kyle Jean-Baptiste, the first African-American actor to play the iconic lead
role of Jean Valjean in the popular Broadway musical ''Les Misérables,'' died on
Friday after falling from a fire escape in Brooklyn. He was 21.

Mr. Jean-Baptiste was an ensemble performer and an understudy for the role of
Valjean, said Marc Thibodeau, a spokesman for the production. In addition to
being the first African-American actor to play the role, he was also the
youngest.

''The entire Les Misérables family is shocked and devastated by the sudden and
tragic loss of Kyle, a remarkable young talent and tremendous person who made
magic -- and history -- in his Broadway debut,'' said the production in a
statement posted to its official Facebook page.

The police said that Mr. Jean-Baptiste's death ''appeared to be accidental.''
They said he fell from the fourth-floor fire escape of an apartment in the
Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn.

Mr. Jean-Baptiste was sitting on the fire escape with a 23-year-old female
friend, the police said, when he stood up, slipped and fell backward to the
street below.

His death was mourned by friends, family and Broadway luminaries. Tony Award
winners Audra McDonald and Kristin Chenoweth sent Twitter messages offering
their condolences to his family and the musical's cast. Lin-Manuel Miranda, the
writer of the Broadway musical ''Hamilton,'' expressed his dismay at the news,
writing on Twitter, ''Unimaginable. In shock. He was just in here.''

Mr. Miranda also shared a link to a YouTube video of himself and Mr.
Jean-Baptiste performing a number from ''Les Misérables'' two weeks ago on the
sidewalk in front of the Richard Rodgers Theater on 46th Street, where
''Hamilton'' is currently running.

[Video: A #Ham4Ham Confrontation on 46th Street! Watch on YouTube.]

''The tragic loss of Kyle to our company, just as he was on the threshold of a
brilliant career, is a numbing reminder of how precious life is,'' said Cameron
Mackintosh, the producer of Les Misérables, in a statement. ''His spirit was
infinite and his voice from God -- we are all so sad not to have spent more time
with him, for he truly was a rare talent and a special person.''

Ramin Karimloo, an actor who regularly plays the role of Valjean in the Broadway
production, described Mr. Jean-Baptiste as a rising star, a charismatic and
talented performer with ''a zest for life and the industry.''

Mr. Jean-Baptiste was a friend and ''a workout buddy,'' Mr. Karimloo said, whose
natural charisma and preternaturally powerful tenor voice would have led him to
a bright future in the theater.

''He had a lot of ambition and the confidence to achieve those ambitions,'' said
Mr. Karimloo. ''He would have been something, that's for sure. He would have
definitely made an impact on this industry. When I heard him sing, his voice was
ridiculous for a guy his age.''

Mr. Jean-Baptiste joined the company of ''Les Misérables'' on June 23 and took
the stage as Valjean one month later, Mr. Thibodeau said. The day after his
first performance, Mr. Jean-Baptiste wrote on Twitter that it had been ''one of
the best nights of my life.''

He performed the role ''several times'' before his final performance on Thursday
evening, Mr. Thibodeau said. He was scheduled to leave the show on Sept. 6 to
join the Broadway production of ''The Color Purple.''

Mr. Jean-Baptiste celebrated his final performance as Valjean in a message
posted to Twitter on Tuesday morning.

''Thursday is my last Valjean on Broadway,'' he wrote. ''The ability to play
this part on Broadway has been life changing.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/kyle-jean-baptiste-actor-in-les-miser
ables-dies-in-fall.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kyle Jean-Baptiste (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA MARIE DUNCAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL
THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ACCIDENTAL
FATALITIES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%);
FILM (89%); THEATER (89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%);
TONY AWARDS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); WRITERS (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%)

PERSON: AUDRA MCDONALD (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Egypt Gives Journalists 3 Years in Prison

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; David D. Kirkpatrick and Merna Thomas contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 714 words


CAIRO --  An Egyptian judge on Saturday handed down an unexpectedly harsh
verdict in the trial of three journalists from the Al Jazeera English news
channel, sentencing them to three years in prison on charges that legal experts
said were unfounded and politically motivated.

The verdict was especially stunning because Egyptian officials had repeatedly
signaled that they viewed the trial as a nuisance that had brought unwanted
scrutiny of the government. The families of the journalists, Mohamed Fahmy,
Baher Mohamed and Peter Greste, said they had expected that the men would either
be exonerated or sentenced to time already served.

But instead, the judge, Hassan Farid, upheld what human rights advocates said
was among many baseless accusations leveled during the journalists' long legal
odyssey: that they had ''broadcast false news'' about Egypt on Al Jazeera.

The judge also said that the men, who had all previously worked for other
international news organizations, were not journalists because they lacked the
necessary credentials.

Prosecutors had accused them of plotting with the Muslim Brotherhood to produce
false news reports, but had offered no evidence of either collaboration with the
Brotherhood or of any erroneous broadcasts.

The verdict appeared to reinforce a growing conviction among analysts and
diplomats that President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who rules without a legislature,
does not command full obedience from Egypt's fractious bureaucracy, including
its courts. Mr. Sisi has said in the past that he would have deported the
journalists rather than try them.

At the same time, the verdict suggested enthusiasm in Egypt's ruling circles for
restricting free speech, even two years after the military takeover that brought
Mr. Sisi to power.

''I'm completely shocked,'' said Adel Fahmy, Mr. Fahmy's brother, after the
verdict was read. ''Everything was pointing towards exoneration today. They keep
on disappointing us with this unbelievable judicial system.''

Mr. Fahmy and Mr. Mohamed, who had been free on bail, were remanded into custody
after the hearing on Saturday. Mr. Greste, an Australian citizen, was deported
in February under a presidential decree that allows the expulsion of foreigners
convicted of crimes.

Mr. Fahmy, who holds Canadian citizenship, could still be deported under the
same decree, but Mr. Mohamed, an Egyptian citizen, would not be eligible. Their
families and lawyers said they would appeal the sentence.

Amal Clooney, a lawyer for Mr. Fahmy, told journalists after the hearing that
she would ask Mr. Sisi to pardon her client and his colleagues. ''What just
happened in that courtroom was an outrage,'' Ms. Clooney said.

The State Department said in a statement that the United States was ''deeply
disappointed and concerned'' by the verdict, which ''undermines the very freedom
of expression necessary for stability and development.''

The three men were arrested in December 2013. Their arrests were among thousands
carried out by the government after the military ouster in July 2013 of Mohamed
Morsi, a Muslim Brotherhood leader and Egypt's first fairly elected president.

The decision to prosecute the journalists was seen as part of a broader attempt
by the military-backed government to stifle the news media and free expression.
This summer, the Committee to Protect Journalists reported that at least 18
journalists were imprisoned in Egypt -- the highest number since the group began
keeping records in 1990.

Analysts have said that journalists were also primarily victims of the damaged
relations between Egypt and the government of Qatar, which owns Al Jazeera and
is a strong supporter of the Brotherhood.

The journalists were convicted after a first trial that human rights advocates
said showcased Egypt's frequently slapdash prosecutions and capricious court
judgments. In that trial, Ms. Clooney noted, the journalists were found by the
judge to have been ''in a plot with Satan.''

In January, Egypt's highest appeals court ordered a retrial.

Mr. Mohamed, who appeared most likely to serve his sentence, was given an
additional six months by the judge on Saturday -- apparently for possessing a
spent bullet casing at the time of his arrest that he had picked up one day at a
protest.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/middleeast/al-jazeera-journalists-senten
ced-to-3-years-in-prison-in-egypt.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mohamed Fahmy, one of three Al Jazeera English journalists on
trial, listened to the sentence in prison in Cairo on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
AMR NABIL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (91%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%);
SENTENCING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%);
ARRESTS (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); MILITARY RULE
(78%); LAWYERS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); LITIGATION (78%);
HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BAIL (73%); MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD (73%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); PARDONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); APPEALS (61%)

PERSON: ABDEL FATTAH EL-SISSI (79%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Editors' Choice | Recent Books of Particular Interest

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 276 words


THE PRIZE: Who's in Charge of America's Schools?, by Dale Russakoff. (Houghton
Mifflin Har­court, $27.) This brilliantly reported account of Newark's attempt
to right its public schools stars Cory Booker, Chris Christie and Mark
Zuckerberg.

NEUROTRIBES: The Legacy of Autism and the Future of Neurodiversity, by Steve
Silberman. (Avery/Penguin Random House, $29.95.) A broader view of autism,
beautifully presented.

EVERYBODY RISE, by Stephanie Clifford. (St. Martin's, $26.99.) In Clifford's
novel of manners, a striving woman seeks to enter New York's old-money circles
in the years before the financial crisis.

THE SHAPE OF THE NEW: Four Big Ideas and How They Made the Modern World, by
Scott L. Montgomery and Daniel Chirot. (Princeton University, $35.) How
capitalism, socialism, evolution and liberal democracy broke decisively with the
past.

THE TWO-STATE DELUSION: Israel and Palestine -- a Tale of Two Narratives, by
Padraig O'Malley. (Viking, $30.) A knowledgeable critique of the idea of an
independent Palestine alongside Israel.

GOODBYE STRANGER, by Rebecca Stead. (Wendy Lamb, $16.99; ages 10 and up.)
Seventh grade means changing relationships and stirrings of attraction for the
friends in this sensitive novel.

HONOR GIRL, by Maggie Thrash. (Candlewick, $19.99; ages 14 and up.) A camper
develops a life-changing crush on an older counselor in this remarkable graphic
memoir.

A WINDOW OPENS, by Elisabeth Egan. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) This debut novel
amusingly depicts a mother's work-life tensions.

WAITING, by Kevin Henkes. (Greenwillow/HarperCollins, $17.99; ages 3 to 7.) A
gentle and elegant glimpse into the secret life of toys.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/editors-choice.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (86%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (72%); AUTISM (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%);
LIBERALISM (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: CORY BOOKER (73%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (57%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ISRAEL
(68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Casey Harris

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY.

Kate Murphy is a journalist in Houston who writes frequently for The New York
Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; DOWNLOAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 574 words


Casey Harris is the keyboard player for the indie rock band X Ambassadors, whose
song ''Renegades'' has been No. 1 on Billboard's Alternative chart for the past
11 weeks.

READING I have a genetic thing called Senior-Loken syndrome that affects both my
kidneys and vision. Unfortunately, I can't read anything on paper. On a computer
screen, it has to be like an inch tall, really bold and superhigh contrast. So I
listen to audiobooks the way other people watch TV. The reader is crucial,
though. An amazing book can be absolutely ruined by a bad narrator and a fairly
boring book can be made pretty good by an exceptional narrator like, for
example, Ron McLarty, William Dufris and Stephen Thorne.

Most recently, I really enjoyed ''The Martian'' by Andy Weir and narrated by R.
C. Bray. It's about this guy who gets left behind on Mars. It's almost like one
of those wilderness survival stories except he's on Mars. I'm a big science
buff, and the science in the story is rock-solid and as realistic as possible.

I also liked ''The Goldfinch'' by Donna Tartt, read by David Pittu. She
describes the main character doing things like what I did in my early 20s --
loafing and moping around the house, drinking during the day -- and she somehow
makes it riveting. She so gets into the vibe and you think, ''God, he needs to
break that loop,'' but you sympathize with him.

LISTENING I actually haven't listened to that much music recently. I guess
because, being on tour, I hear a lot of music without even trying. In recent
days though, I've been delving back into jazz -- Coltrane, Thelonious Monk,
Dexter Gordon, Herbie Hancock -- and also been dabbling a bit in some older,
big-band-style recordings.

WATCHING With all the modern rapid change of camera angles and quick cuts in TV
and movies these days, I have no idea what's going on visually. But I still
enjoy a good comedy like ''Arrested Development'' and ''Broad City'' or a good
dramatic show like ''The Wire'' or ''Breaking Bad,'' where there is enough
dialogue that I can pretty much follow it. But I admit I sometimes cheat and
afterward go online and read a description to make sure I didn't miss any
crucial details.

FOLLOWING I have so much other stuff in my life I need to do. I just don't have
time for it. Other members of the band are more heavily present online but none
of us are hard-core social media socialites.

TRANSPLANTING I had a kidney transplant when I was 23. It's been almost six
years. I just had an appointment a week ago and everything checked out all
right. I'm pretty lucky. My mom donated her kidney. Yeah, my mom is the best --
100 percent. I can't say enough good things about that woman.

PLAYING I just got a Nord Lead 4 keyboard. It's a brand I've been using for a
long time. I use them mainly because of my vision. It's one of the few modern
digital keyboard brands where you don't have to look at a menu on a screen to
program it. There's a knob or button for pretty much every function on the
keyboard. Nords are also famous for having really good quality keyboards and
vintage synth sounds.

KICKING I have to give full credit to my girlfriend -- she ordered an American
Tourister quad suitcase for me for the tour and it's amazing. You don't have to
tilt it, you just give it a kick and it will scoot along in the T.S.A. line.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/casey-harris.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); KEYBOARD
INSTRUMENTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (77%); UROGENITAL
DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%);
SOCIAL MEDIA (60%)

PERSON: DONNA TARTT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dynasties Hit Trump Bump

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 908 words


Washington -- PITY Poppy.

When I went down to Houston a few years ago to eat pizza with the former
president, he was his usual gracious self, speaking fondly about President Obama
and his new pal Bill Clinton.

But there was one person who got dismissed with a brusque obscenity: Donald
Trump.

It was at the height of Trump's birther madness and Bush was disgusted by it.

So I can only imagine 41's dismay and disbelief -- and acid flashbacks to
spoiler Ross Perot -- now that Trump has popped up to block the path of the son
who Poppy desperately wants to see as 45, restoring the family name after 43's
spiral.

The New York wheeler-dealer, who held a fund-raiser at his Trump Tower apartment
for gubernatorial candidate Jeb at Poppy's request back in 1997, has had a
devastating and disorienting effect on Jeb's presidential candidacy.

The Trumpster has suckered Jeb! into scraps that have ended up backfiring on Jeb
and elevating Trump. And he has trumpeted a lethargic, insubstantial image of
Jeb that is at odds with the perky red ''Jeb!'' campaign logo.

In a Washington Post story last week about the fractious relationship, Trump
ridiculed Jeb's investment banking work at Lehman Brothers and later Barclays.
Trump suggested that the millions Jeb was paid were a reward for steering
Florida state funds to Lehman. ''Why would you pay a man $1.3 million a year for
a no-show job at Lehman Brothers -- which, when it failed, almost took the world
with it?'' Trump asked.

In a bank shot, Trump dragged in the Democratic front-runner, noting, ''That's a
Hillary Clinton kind of situation.''

It's deeply weird, but the jeering billionaire reality star seems authentic to
many Americans. Trump is a manifestation of national disgust -- with the money
that consumed politics, with the dysfunctional, artificial status quo and with
the turgid return to a Bush-Clinton race, with a less adept Bush and Clinton.

''The prospect of Hillary and Jeb as the nominees created a huge opening for
something like this,'' said former W. strategist Matthew Dowd. ''The American
public looked at it and said, 'I do not want that.' ''

Dowd said Friday that everyone should stop being in denial and start accepting
that Trump could be the nominee.

''Do I think that Trump should be president?'' Dowd asked. ''No. Do I think he
can be the badly needed match that burns down the status quo? Yes. Do I think he
could precipitate an advent of a real third party? Yes.''

He thinks the other candidates don't know how to deal with Trump. ''They should
treat him like an alien visitor,'' he said, ''and, like judo, use his own weight
-- in this case, his self-absorption and hair-trigger reactions -- against him.
He doesn't care if you say he's not a real conservative.''

Trump's ''gusto,'' as he likes to call it, has thrown into sharper relief the
grinding-it-out, impatient entitlement, the overthinking and overcorrecting of
Jeb and Hillary.

Both campaign like they are owed, not because of their great national
achievements, but because of their byzantine family dynamics.

Jeb feels he is owed because his brother sneaked in and snatched the presidency
that his parents had designated for the Good Son, and because he was pressured
to help W. purloin Florida in 2000.

And Hillary feels she is owed because she moved to Arkansas and then stuck it
out with Bill through an anachronistic first lady job and Monica; because she
was a team player and bided her time in the Senate and as secretary of state;
because a whippersnapper named Barack sneaked in and snatched the presidency
that should have been hers.

Funnily enough, the biggest narcissist in the race -- and possibly the universe
-- has the one slogan that refers to the desires of voters: ''Make America Great
Again!'' Hillary has ''Hillary'' with an arrow pointing at it. And Jeb has
''Jeb!'' with an exclamation point that represents the only fizz in his
campaign.

Each one of this trio has a dilemma.

Because she is seen as domineering and distant, Hillary is most popular -- and
becomes most human -- when she is brushed back. When she is pushed against the
wall, she gets better. But how can she win if she can only convey authenticity
when she is losing?

She is so coiled about losing again -- carrying her front-runner status around
like a Fabergé egg -- that she screws up and starts losing. Her server, meant to
shield her image and protect her from investigation, ends up sparking an
investigation and damaging her image.

Jeb has to avoid the towel-snapping tone of his brother, because that
overcompensating testosterone led to tragedy. But how does he convey strength to
voters fretting that America is weak and prevent Trump from painting him as a
milquetoast?

Trump knows he has a dilemma as well. His hyperbolic style and instinct for the
jugular have propelled him to the front of the pack -- a fact that has stunned
even him. But how does he keep the colored lights going while conveying
requisite dignity?

Even Joe Biden, padding around the edge of the campaign, has a dilemma: How does
he honor the wish of his late son, Beau, to run when the death of Beau has left
him so depleted he may not be able to run?

Matt Dowd thinks Biden would do well in this field: ''Trump's the only one who
can make Biden seem disciplined.''

Follow Maureen Dowd on Twitter.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/maureen-dowd-bush-and-clinton-d
ynasties-hit-trump-bump.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS
& OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS
(77%); LSD (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); INVESTMENT
BANKING (74%); FUNDRAISING (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); REALITY TELEVISION
(64%); GOVERNORS (53%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6211
SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DONALD TRUMP (79%);
BARACK OBAMA (73%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Donald Trump, Traitor to His Class

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 877 words


THE Donald Trump phenomenon is a great gift to pundits because it can be
analyzed and criticized in so many different ways. But two shorthands seem
particularly useful. First, Trump is essentially using the Republican primary to
run a third-party campaign, not a right-wing insurgency. Second, Trump's appeal
is oddly like that of Franklin Roosevelt, in the sense that he's a rich,
well-connected figure -- a rich New Yorker, at that -- who's campaigning as a
traitor to his class.

These two elements of Trumpism are intimately connected. In American politics,
the two-party system, no less than the Senate or the Supreme Court, has long
served as a check on pure democracy, a means of elite control. So long as there
are only two competitive parties, the political diversity of the country will be
channeled through their sluice gates, and the (mostly upper-class,
highly-educated, self-consciously globalist) people who run the parties will
exercise disproportionate control over which ideas find representation.

This does not mean the two parties are interchangeable, a Republicrat conspiracy
against the public. A clash between powerful elites can still be a very real
clash, as recent Supreme Court decisions attest.

Nor does it mean that elites always get their way, even where there is
bipartisan agreement. If they did, the Simpson-Bowles entitlement plan and
comprehensive immigration reform would have passed many years ago.

But it does mean certain ideologies and worldviews get marginalized in national
political debate. The libertarian who wants to cut defense spending, the
anti-abortion voter who favors a bigger welfare state, the immigration skeptic
who wants to keep Social Security exactly as it is ... all these voters and many
others choose the lesser of two evils every November, because neither party's
leadership has any interest in representing their entire worldview.

In certain ways this narrowing can be good for the republic. Elites can have
wisdom that populists lack, certain ideas deserve suppression, and multiparty
systems are more likely to hand power to extremists or buffoons. (It's a good
thing for the country that neither Henry Wallace's effectively pro-Soviet
leftism nor George Wallace's segregationist populism outlived their respective
third-party bids.)

And when the two-party system is functioning at its best, party leaders can
integrate compelling third-party ideas, or even reorient a party entirely to
react to a public discontented with its options.

But it has been more than four decades since the last such reorientation, and
two decades since the last time a third-party candidate saw his ideas even
co-opted by the major parties. Across the latter twenty years, the country has
endured a series of disasters that had bipartisan fingerprints all over them.
Yet the various movements that have arisen in reaction to those failures -- the
antiwar left, the Tea Party right, Occupy Wall Street -- have yet to even unseat
an incumbent president, let alone change the basic lines along which the two
parties debate.

Which is where Trump comes in. So far he's running against the Republican
establishment in a more profound way than the Tea Party, challenging not just
deviations from official conservative principle but the entire post-Reagan
conservative matrix. He can wax right wing on immigration one moment and promise
to tax hedge fund managers the next. He'll attack political correctness and then
pledge to protect entitlements. He can sound like Pat Buchanan on trade and
Bernie Sanders on health care. He regularly attacks the entire Iraq
misadventure, in its Bush-era and Obama-era manifestations alike, in a way that
neither mainstream Republicans nor Hillary Clinton can plausibly manage.

And he's coming at all these issues, crucially, from a vantage point of
privilege -- which his critics keep highlighting as though it discredits him,
when in reality it lends his populism a deeper credibility. He's the Acela
Corridor billionaire (albeit tackier than most) who promises to reveal what the
elites are really up to, the crony capitalist who can tell you just how corrupt
D.C. really is, the financier who'll tell you that high finance can afford
higher taxes. It's precisely because he isn't a blue collar outsider that he may
seem like a credible change agent: Because he knows Wall Street, and because he
doesn't need its money to campaign, it seems like he could actually fight his
fellow elites and win.

He won't, of course, but it matters a great deal how he loses. In a healthy
two-party system, the G.O.P. would treat Trump's strange success as evidence
that the party's basic orientation may need to change substantially, so that it
looks less like a tool of moneyed interests and more like a vehicle for middle
American discontent.

In an unhealthy system, the kind I suspect we inhabit, the Republicans will find
a way to crush Trump without adapting to his message. In which case the pressure
the Donald has tapped will continue to build -- and when it bursts, the G.O.P.
as we know it may go with it.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter at twitter.com/DouthatNYT.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/ross-douthat-donald-trump-trait
or-to-his-class.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS
(77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); EVIDENCE (74%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%);
POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); AGREEMENTS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); IMMIGRATION
(64%); DEFENSE SPENDING (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Christie Proposes Immigrant Tracker Similar to FedEx

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 324 words


Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey said on Saturday that if he were elected
president he would combat illegal immigration by creating a system to track
foreign visitors the way FedEx tracks packages.

Mr. Christie, who is far back in the pack of candidates for the Republican
presidential nomination, said at a campaign event in New Hampshire that he would
ask the chief executive of FedEx, Frederick W. Smith, to devise the tracking
system.

Immigration has become a top issue in the Republican campaign, with the
front-runner, Donald J. Trump, having vowed to deport the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants in the country and to build a wall along the United States'
southern border.

''At any moment, FedEx can tell you where that package is. It's on the truck.
It's at the station. It's on the airplane,'' Mr. Christie told the crowd in
Laconia, N.H. ''Yet we let people come to this country with visas, and the
minute they come in, we lose track of them.''

He added: ''We need to have a system that tracks you from the moment you come
in.''

He said 40 percent of illegal immigrants are allowed into the United States
legally with a visa and then stay longer than their visa allows.

''However long your visa is, then we go get you,'' Mr. Christie said. ''We tap
you on the shoulder and say, 'Excuse me. Thanks for coming. Time to go.' ''

Mr. Christie has been lagging in recent opinion polls and is in danger of not
being one of the top 10 candidates who will be invited to participate in the
next official Republican debate, on Sept. 16.

With Mr. Trump taking a hard line on illegal immigration, other Republican
presidential candidates have sought to toughen their stances as well.

Mr. Christie did not say specifically how a system would track people the same
way packages are tracked by FedEx, which scans a bar code on the package at each
step of its delivery.

A FedEx spokeswoman declined to comment on Mr. Christie's remarks.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/us/politics/christie-proposes-immigrant-tracke
r-similar-to-fedex.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%);
US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS
(78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%);
POLLS & SURVEYS (68%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS488510
FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING,
LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%)

PERSON: CHRIS CHRISTIE (92%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); FREDERICK W SMITH (79%)

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vick Sharp in His Debut as Backup for Steelers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 610 words


Michael Vick showed no signs of rust in making his preseason debut four days
after signing with the Pittsburgh Steelers.

Vick hit Martavis Bryant for a 63-yard completion on his first snap from
scrimmage on Saturday after taking over for the Steelers' starting quarterback,
Ben Roethlisberger, in the first quarter during a 43-19 loss to the Buffalo
Bills.

Vick, signed after Bruce Gradkowski sustained a season-ending hand injury,
finished 4 of 5 passing for 116 yards and was sacked once in two series. He is
competing with Landry Jones for the No. 2 job.

Bills quarterback E. J. Manuel made his case to reclaim the starting job by
going 7 of 8 passing for 170 yards and two touchdowns. Getting his turn to start
in Buffalo's three-way quarterback competition, Manuel hit Charles Clay for a
67-yard touchdown in the first quarter. He re-entered the game in the third
quarter and hit Tobais Palmer for a 37-yard touchdown.

Matt Cassel and Tyrod Taylor had their turns in Buffalo's first two preseason
games. The three are in the midst of what has been an off-season-long
competition for the starting job. All three got an opportunity to play with the
first-string offense on Saturday.

Injuries struck both teams.

Coach Rex Ryan said the receiver Marquise Goodwin was out indefinitely for the
Bills with broken ribs.

The Steelers lost another kicker. Garrett Hartley did not return after hurting
his right hamstring on a first-quarter kickoff. Pittsburgh signed Hartley on
Aug. 11 after Shaun Suisham sustained a season-ending knee injury.

EXTENSION FOR RECEIVER The Atlanta Falcons agreed to a $71.25 million, five-year
contract extension with Julio Jones, following a pledge by the owner Arthur
Blank to make Jones ''a Falcon for life.''

The deal, which keeps Jones in Atlanta through the 2020 season, includes
guarantees of $47.5 million. His average salary during the contract is $14.25
million.

Jones, who set career highs with 104 catches and a franchise-record 1,593
receiving yards last season, was set to earn about $10 million this season.

TACKLE GETS NEW DEAL Washington Redskins left tackle Trent Williams agreed to
terms on a new five-year contract with $32 million in guaranteed money.

Williams's agent, Vincent Taylor, said Williams would receive an $8.5 million
signing bonus. He will have an average salary of $13.2 million, and the $66
million deal provides for an additional $11.25 million in guaranteed money if he
gets injured.

Taylor said the contract was the largest in N.F.L. history for an offensive
tackle.

Williams was selected to the Pro Bowl in each of the past three seasons. He was
drafted fourth over all in 2010 out of Oklahoma.

PACKERS' COBB INJURED Receiver Randall Cobb left the Green Bay Packers'
preseason game against the Philadelphia Eagles with a shoulder injury.

Cobb appeared to be favoring his right arm after landing on it while trying to
catch a pass from the rookie Brett Hundley on Green Bay's first drive.

He is the second starting wideout to be hurt for Green Bay in the preseason.
Jordy Nelson was lost for the year with a right knee injury the previous week.

JAGUARS END IS HURT Jacksonville Jaguars defensive end Andre Branch may miss
''significant time'' early in the season after spraining a knee ligament.

Coach Gus Bradley made the announcement Saturday, one day after Branch was
injured during a preseason game against Detroit. Branch sprained the medial
collateral ligament in his left knee when his teammate Aaron Colvin landed on
him.

It is the latest setback for Jacksonville's defensive line, which is already
without the rookie end Dante Fowler Jr. and tackle Sen'Derrick Marks.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/football/nfl-preseason-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%);
ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (89%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); KNEE DISORDERS &
INJURIES (76%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (52%); GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (94%); BUFFALO BILLS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%)

PERSON: BEN ROETHLISBERGER (91%); ARTHUR M BLANK (50%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Death Row Delays, Ruled Unconstitutional in California, Face Appellate Test

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 975 words


Whether California's application of the death penalty is so drawn out and
arbitrary that it amounts to cruel and unusual punishment will be argued on
Monday before a federal appeals court in Pasadena.

If the lawyers for a condemned man are victorious, the case could bring a
reprieve to more than 740 prisoners now on death row at San Quentin State Prison
and send legal ripples across the country. Either way, legal experts say, it
raises issues about the administration of capital punishment that are likely to
reach the Supreme Court over time.

In Monday's hearing before a three-judge panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, California officials will seek to overturn a
surprise ruling last year by a lower federal court, which declared the state's
''death penalty system'' to be unconstitutional.

Hailed by death penalty opponents as a breakthrough and attacked by others as
unwise and legally out of line, the decision was issued on July 16, 2014, by
Judge Cormac J. Carney of Federal District Court in Santa Ana. It focused not on
disparities in the meting out of death sentences in the first place -- the more
familiar charge -- but on the decades of tangled and prolonged reviews that
follow and the rarity of actual executions.

In a scathing account of what he called a dysfunctional system, Judge Carney
noted that of the more than 900 people who had been sentenced to death in
California since 1978, when the current legal structure was established, only 13
had been executed.

Citing growing delays in a judicial review process that can take 25 years or
more, far above the national norm, Judge Carney said death sentences had been
transformed, in effect, into ''life in prison, with the remote possibility of
death.''

The ''random few'' who are put to death, he said, ''will have languished for so
long on death row that their execution will serve no retributive or deterrent
purpose and will be arbitrary.''

Judge Carney ruled on the appeal of Ernest Dewayne Jones, who was condemned to
die in 1995 for a murder and rape and made a last-ditch plea to a federal court
after his appeals to the California Supreme Court had been denied. The judge
vacated Mr. Jones's death sentence as he declared California's
capital-punishment process to be generally unconstitutional.

The decision was a stunning one, and California officials have sharply
challenged it on both procedure and substance. They say it was illegitimate
because Mr. Jones's arguments about the arbitrariness of the review system --
issues going beyond the long delays alone -- had not first been considered in
the California courts, as required.

Beyond that, according to the brief from the state's attorney general, Kamala D.
Harris, a Democrat, the delays and rarity of executions do not reflect random
quirks. Rather, it says, they are a product of California's effort to be
scrupulously fair, ensuring that condemned prisoners have high-quality lawyers
and every opportunity to question the legality of their sentences.

California legislators have required such exhaustive reviews and procedures as
''an important safeguard against arbitrariness and caprice,'' the state holds,
quoting from a 1976 Supreme Court decision.

In a plebiscite in 2012, California voters affirmed the death penalty by a
narrow margin, with 52 percent voting to keep it and 48 percent voting to
replace it with life in prison without parole.

California inmates normally wait three to five years just for the appointment of
a qualified defense lawyer, a delay that may be repeated as convicts pursue two
successive state appeals and then a federal one. Beyond the prolonged process of
reviewing death sentences, California has had a de facto moratorium on
executions since 2006 because of disputes over the method of lethal injection.

The questions of arbitrariness and extreme delay that are raised by the Jones
case are important and may well gain purchase in the courts, said Eric M.
Freedman, a professor of constitutional law and death penalty expert at Hofstra
University.

''But that does not necessarily mean that this particular litigation will be the
vehicle by which the courts resolve these issues,'' he added, noting that
procedural or other questions could lead the appeals panel to overrule the Jones
decision.

The arguments made by Mr. Jones's lawyers -- and echoed by Judge Carney -- are
similar in part to those made in June by Justice Stephen G. Breyer of the
Supreme Court. In a sweeping dissent, joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg,
Justice Breyer went beyond the lethal-injection issue at hand to ask whether the
death penalty was so marred by unreliable decisions, arbitrary application and
delays that it should be abolished.

But conservative justices responded that death penalty opponents, in their zeal
to erect obstacles to executions, were responsible for inordinate delays and
unpredictability.

If the Ninth Circuit and even the Supreme Court should uphold Judge Carney's
ruling, this would not necessarily cause the death penalty to unravel
nationwide, said Douglas A. Berman, an expert on criminal law at the Ohio State
University Moritz College of Law.

Judge Carney's decision turned on details specific to California, and with its
high number of condemned prisoners and very low pace of executions, the state is
in a class by itself, Mr. Berman said. Still, he added, a similar critique might
succeed in a few other states, including Pennsylvania and Florida.

Given the deep divisions within California over the death penalty, Mr. Berman
added, the state may, in an odd way that has nothing to do with constitutional
principles, be well served by the status quo.

''Voters, and perhaps the executive branch, too, are not that troubled with a
system that has lots of death sentences and few executions,'' Mr. Berman said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/us/california-death-penalty-struck-down-over-d
elays-faces-next-test.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: More than 740 inmates are on death row at San Quentin State
Prison in California. The state challenged a federal judge's ruling. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (96%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL
PUNISHMENT (90%); APPEALS (90%); PRISONS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); SUPREME COURTS
(89%); MURDER (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JAIL
SENTENCING (77%); LAWYERS (77%); JUDGES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); SEX
OFFENSES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (57%)

PERSON: KAMALA HARRIS (79%)

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Works to Bolster Donations

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MARTIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FIRST DRAFT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 434 words


Jeb Bush's presidential campaign, which to date has raised significantly more
than his Republican rivals', is encountering difficulties maintaining its torrid
pace as Mr. Bush slips in the polls and top party donors continue to withhold
their commitments.

A finance aide for Mr. Bush sent an email to contributors Friday with an
invitation to a breakfast fund-raiser in Washington next month, with a pointed
plea that the former Florida governor's supporters find new donors.

''Please note -- this is new money only,'' wrote Sarah Corsaro, the staff
member, using bold for emphasis. She said, ''We are utilizing this event to
drive in new funds'' for the next quarterly fund-raising disclosure.

The email suggests that in his initial push to raise money after announcing his
candidacy in June, Mr. Bush maximized his support among backers in the
Washington area capable of giving the $2,700 legally allowed, and that the
campaign is now eager to add wealthy donors who have previously not contributed
to Mr. Bush.

The co-chair committee for the $1,000-per-person breakfast indicates why Mr.
Bush is so focused on finding new donors: It is a list heavy with family,
friends, and former aides and loyalists to his father, brother and himself.

Mr. Bush raised a combined $114 million for his campaign and ''super PAC'' in
the first half of the year, but with Donald J. Trump unexpectedly surging and
Mr. Bush falling in Republican polls, some of the party's top money raisers are
remaining on the fence in terms of supporting Mr. Bush.

This reluctance, and the prospect of a hard-fought Republican contest that could
last well into 2016, has prompted Mr. Bush to institute cost-saving measures in
his campaign. Some aides have seen their pay cut back as part of an effort to
curtail spending.

And on Friday, three of the candidate's Florida fund-raising consultants left
the campaign after apparently clashing with the new leadership team Mr. Bush
installed in June. Mr. Bush's hard-charging campaign manager, Danny Diaz, has
pushed staffers to work longer hours and be more cost conscious.

Tim Miller, communications director for Mr Bush, said: ''Ann Herberger is his
longtime fund-raising consultant in Florida. We have a full-time finance staff
in Miami HQ, as well. These are consultants with multiple clients. We moved in a
different direction.''

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/08/29/jeb-bushs-campaign-makes-
appeal-amid-fund-raising-woes/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%);
FUNDRAISING INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (78%);
WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%);
INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(50%)

PERSON: JEB BUSH (92%); DONALD TRUMP (79%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (59%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Real Threat to Hillary Clinton

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1184 words


THE predicted Republican front-runner flails. The actual Republican front-runner
rails, peddling insults instead of ideas. And the story line caroms from
misogyny to xenophobia to a tussle over tresses: toupee or not toupee?

It's impossible to see how anyone electable is salvaged from this.

Then again it's not, because if you sort through the rabble, you find John
Kasich.

He may never make it out of the primaries. The odds are against him. And he has
flaws, serious ones, which I'll get to.

But that doesn't change the fact -- obscured for now by the bedlam of the
Republican contest -- that the party has someone who's comporting himself with
unexpected nimbleness, who would match up very well against Hillary Clinton or
any other Democratic nominee and who could give Republicans hope, if they just
gave him a chance.

Here's the case for Kasich:

He has plenty of experience, plenty of maturity. He knows how Congress works --
and, presumably, how to work with it -- because he served in the House of
Representatives for 18 years, six of them as the chairman of the House Budget
Committee.

He's now in his second term as the governor of Ohio, and that's not just any
state. Along with Florida, it's one of the two fiercest battlegrounds in a
presidential election, a necessary part of the electoral calculus for
Republicans.

He won re-election there last year with 64 percent of the vote. That largely
reflected the weakness of his Democratic opponent, but Kasich's current approval
rating in Ohio of 61 percent affirms his ability to please a constituency beyond
Republican partisans. His popularity with the voters who know him best came
through in a recent poll showing him well ahead of Donald Trump among Ohio
Republicans. Meanwhile, Florida Republicans put Jeb Bush, their onetime
governor, behind Trump.

By cutting taxes and controlling spending in Ohio, he proved his conservative
bona fides, at least on fiscal issues, something being stressed in a clever new
commercial -- note the female and black faces, along with the use of the moon
landing to capture a yearning for American greatness -- that's being shown in
New Hampshire.

But there's plenty else that pegs him as independent-minded and might make him
acceptable, even appealing, to swing voters, whom he seems as well positioned to
capture as any of the other Republican candidates are.

He has expressed openness to some kind of path to citizenship for immigrants who
came here illegally. He has shown little appetite for the culture wars that
other Republicans gleefully fight (although, it must be noted, he formally
opposes gay marriage and abortion rights).

Most strikingly, he broke with Republican orthodoxy and with most other
Republican governors and accepted the Medicaid expansion under Obamacare, a
decision he defended in a way that illuminated his skills as a tactician and a
communicator. He said that what he'd done made practical and cost-effective
sense for Ohio, and that his course was consistent with true Christian
principles, which call for helping the downtrodden.

''To me, faith is the dos, not the don'ts,'' Kasich explained last spring,
steering the party's religious impulses away from divisive social issues and
signaling that conservatism should be as concerned with a big heart as with a
small government.

By revisiting that tone and those themes in the first Republican debate earlier
this month, he turned in one of the best performances of the night.

''Based on what I heard, he's the most electable,'' said Douglas Schoen, a
Democratic strategist, referring to Kasich's general-election prospects. Schoen
said that he was especially impressed with the way Kasich, answering a question
about Trump, made clear that he didn't endorse Trump's approach but understood
the frustration that has brought many Republican voters into Trump's camp, at
least for now.

''That's crucial, because the Trump phenomenon is a bigger thing than just a
reality star writ large,'' Schoen said.

During the debate, Ari Fleischer, who served in the second Bush administration,
tweeted: ''Kasich is killing it. Hopeful. Uplifting. Optimistic. And he has an
appeal to those who think the GOP doesn't care.''

And since then I've heard similarly sunny assessments from New Hampshire, where
Kasich is focusing his efforts and his ''super PAC'' is spending millions.

In a poll released early last week, he rose to second place among Republicans in
the state, behind Trump. That same survey of New Hampshire voters showed
something else interesting: In hypothetical general-election matchups, Clinton
beat Trump by two points and Bush by seven. But Kasich beat her by two.

Kasich is hardly the anti-politician that many Americans seem to crave. But he
doesn't have the whiff of political royalty that Bush inevitably does. Put Bush
up against Clinton and he erases some of her potential liabilities, because
they're also his: all the reminders of yesterday, all the time spent in a bubble
of privilege, all the unshakable allegiances to overfamiliar characters.

Kasich can strike a folksier chord, reminding voters, as he frequently does,
that his father was a postal worker and his grandfather a coal miner.

He can do something additional that isn't really feasible for Bush -- pick, as
his running mate, the person who might as well wear a sign that says ''perfect
Republican vice-presidential candidate.''

I mean Marco Rubio, who can seem too green for the top job but not for the No. 2
spot. He's a talented politician. His selection could help with Hispanic voters.
He connotes generational change. And he's from Florida (as is Bush, which argues
against a Bush-Rubio ticket).

But can Kasich even get to the general election? As of Friday, the Real Clear
Politics average of recent national polls of Republicans has him in eighth place
among the 17 contenders.

And in the eyes of many disapproving conservatives, ''He's the one Republican in
the field that not only embraced Obamacare, but took it out in his dad's station
wagon and made out with it,'' as the Republican strategist Rick Wilson told
Caitlin Huey-Burns of Real Clear Politics.

There's no reason to think he'll do well in early primary contests in Iowa,
South Carolina and Nevada. That puts do-or-die pressure on New Hampshire.

He's known to have attention problems and a mean streak. His congressional
career links him to the disastrous mid-1990s effort to shut down the government.
And after Congress, he worked as an investment banker with Lehman Brothers, the
Wall Street firm. That's a résumé line out of sync with the electorate's mood.

But he has made the best of it, portraying it as an inside look at a vital part
of the economy, a fruitful research mission. He's dexterous that way. And
Democrats, trust me, have noticed, enough to hope that Republican primary voters
don't wake up to the same realization.

I invite you to visit my blog, follow me on Twitter at twitter.com/frankbruni
and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/frank-bruni-the-real-threat-to-
hillary-clinton.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING
(89%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%);
GOVERNORS (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%);
BUDGETS (71%); MEDICAID (65%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (64%); GAYS &
LESBIANS (60%); ABORTION (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); JOHN KASICH (78%); JEB
BUSH (73%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Missing Book

BYLINE: By DOMINIQUE BROWNING.

Dominique Browning is the senior director of Moms Clean Air Force. She blogs at
SlowLoveLife.com.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1163 words


HARRIET WOLF'S SEVENTH BOOK OF WONDERSBy Julianna Baggott 328 pp. Little, Brown
& Company. $26.  Many things are hidden in Julianna Baggott's intricate,
tenderhearted novel about a writer, her children and a legacy of loss. Love
letters, folded into origami cranes that never take flight, are tucked under a
mattress. A newborn child, mute and sallow, is spirited away from her mother and
secreted in an institution. A young man supports himself as a professional hider
of things, until he too must go into hiding. A wife is lost, a husband is lost,
a mother is lost and so is a father. Indeed, an entire book, Harriet Wolf's
seventh novel, has disappeared. And, like so many precious lost things, it may
be hiding in plain sight. All this sounds somber. But in groping for what's
lost, Baggott's characters also stumble across pleasure, joy -- and recognition.

In ''Harriet Wolf's Seventh Book of Wonders,'' its title character rewrites the
story of her life when she's in old age. Her aim is to leave behind a document
explaining herself to her daughter, Eleanor, who never knew her own father, and
to Eleanor's daughters, Tilton and Ruth. Harriet had previously transmogrified a
lifetime of trauma and hope into a sequence of six novels that made her one of
the best-loved authors of her time, a cult figure inspiring such devotion that
readers knock on her door in search of the final, seventh volume that will
resolve all the questions raised in the series. And yet, Harriet writes, ''I've
never cared for novelists. They don't know how to be essential.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. Novelists strike me as brutes, using words
like nails, trying to hammer a story into place.'' Now that she's at the end of
her life, ''as agog as a lamppost,'' she wants to tell ''a different kind of
truth, a truthful kind of lie.''

As a novelist, Harriet's creator is no brute. The narrative Baggott has built
might be described as a post-and-beam structure, a framework of sturdy supports
locked into place with no nails, just fine, firm dovetail joints. Within it, the
four women who make up Harriet's family alternately tell their stories, giving
us a variety of perspectives on her ''gappy grasp of the world.''

There's something of the Baltimore Gothic about Harriet's life, particularly at
the outset, in 1900, when she's given up for nearly dead as soon as she's born.
Her mother has already buried three stillborn children. Though medicine has
advanced, it may not have gotten far enough to save this infant, with her ''dim
pulse,'' from her father's fear that she too will die, bringing further grievous
heartbreak to her fragile mother. And so she's immediately removed to the
Maryland School for Feeble Minded Children, an institution that actually
existed. Baggott has done her research well, vividly depicting this repository
for turbulent, vacant or deformed children, where Harriet is duly classified as
a moron.

Several moments change the course of her young life. One day in the laundry
room, she meets a boy, ''pink and shining in the gusts of hot air.'' Eppitt
Clapp and Harriet Wolf make an intriguing pair: She's an anxious nose bleeder,
beset by occasional mutism and hysteria; he's an anxious word blender who has
''wungs'' (weak lungs) and creates with her a ''sheaven,'' or shared heaven,
under a porch. The moment Harriet sees him, she realizes that ''this was the
first time I'd ever wanted anything.''

Eventually, when Harriet is given an I.Q. test, it turns out that far from being
a moron, she's really a genius. In the aftermath, a mistimed telephone call
connects the school to her reclusive mother, and Harriet is suddenly removed,
leaving Eppitt behind.

Despite her painful childhood memories, Harriet isn't exactly an ideal mother to
her own daughter. ''I was afraid of loving her,'' she confesses, ''because I was
afraid of more loss.'' Still mourning the loss of Eppitt, she tries to recapture
him by writing novels and explains to an older, demanding Eleanor that she's a
bastard and should make the best of it. ''This is a good thing,'' Harriet
argues. ''Fathers can do a good deal of damage.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. Your father never knew you existed. How
could he have scarred you by not loving you?''

Of course Eleanor grows up needing to be needed, resenting the ''untrue
stories'' her mother has written in her novels, dismissing them as ''careless
and selfish.'' But when her husband deserts her and her two daughters, Eleanor,
stewing with rage and resentment, must move them all back into Harriet's house.
For years, at bedtime, Eleanor tells the girls a grisly tale that always ends
the same way: ''The family was torn apart and it couldn't be put back together
again. The end.''

Eleanor is her own Greek chorus, warning that life is full of betrayal and
abandonment. Her older daughter, Ruth, hides under a table, shrouding herself
under a long cloth, and Eleanor leaves her there for two weeks instead of
rescuing and reassuring her. Yet she behaves in just the opposite fashion with
her younger daughter. Tilton is the sort of imaginative, high-strung child that
today might be told she had a spectrum disorder, a girl who feels the world as
much as sees it. She's ''a nervous duck,'' as she puts it, ''the first to sense
trouble.'' By the age of 23, she's more or less housebound, living with her
mother, who has convinced her she has too many afflictions to venture safely out
into the world. Tilton repairs TV sets and rewires record players. She also
writes poetry on commissions her mother invents. (''I knew well enough that
poets, with so few options, often remain at home.'')

Intensely possessive, Harriet feels Tilton to be ''a piece of my own soul
returned to me.'' To her, ''some of us are born dead, some never really born at
all, and others are born fresh every day -- as if they've had new eyes stitched
on overnight -- which is the best way to live.'' It's also the best way to
invent, and whenever Tilton appears, she lights up the page.

As distinctively twisted as these characters' lives are, they still touch our
own, in ways that can be unexpectedly playful. How many of us have known pain so
deep that we think about it every day? How many of us keep secret a longing to
be cherished, to be worth fighting for? All our lives are seamed with tragedies
that gleam, like quartz, with petrified beauty. The stories we tell one another,
and ourselves, are simply a way to make sense of who we are.

By the end of ''Harriet Wolf's Seventh Book of Wonders,'' much comes out of
hiding. Healing cascades down the generations. Harriet's ''truthful kind of
lie'' turns out to be a gift to her daughter. After years of hewing to her
mother's fractured fairy tale, Eleanor finds that Harriet has been there for her
all along -- as has her last, and most revelatory, book. Eleanor and her
daughters will all find a new ending to their story, and remind Baggott's
readers of a gorgeous truth: ''The world is astonishing, mainly because of its
persistence.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/harriet-wolfs-seventh-book-of-won
ders-by-julianna-baggott.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julianna Baggott (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA CIOCIOLA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%);
FICTION LITERATURE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Vino Veritas; In Theater, the Same

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words


LONDON -- Wine is very much on the menu at the Almeida Theater in Islington
these days. It is served, of course, at the bar that adjoins the theater. But
more important, wine is being extolled as absolutely essential to our daily diet
on the Almeida stage, where a riveting production of Euripides' ''Bakkhai'' is
hypnotizing packed houses.

Listen, if you will, to the wise words of the blind seer Teiresias and grab
yourself a flagon: ''Wine is an escape from grief, a slip into sleep, a cool
forgetting of the hot pains of the day. What better cure for being human?''

Those words are spoken (in a lively new version of ''Bakkhai'' by the poet Anne
Carson) by Ben Whishaw, the electric actor who is portraying several roles in
this production. They include not only Teiresias but also an alluringly
dangerous and sinuous Dionysos, the god who introduced us mortals to alcohol.
Anyway, Teiresias' diagnosis of being human as a condition requiring anesthesia
resonated strongly for me when I heard it.

So many of the shows I've been seeing in London are dedicated to the proposition
that being alive is indeed a painful business. That of course includes the new
production of ''Hamlet,'' the most unobtainable ticket in town, in which
Benedict Cumberbatch (as the prince of the title) spends much of the evening in
a state of such self-evisceration that you can understand why the prospect of an
eternal sleep -- at least one without worrisome dreams or an afterlife -- is a
comfort. ''Three Days in the Country,'' Patrick Marber's crisp, intelligent
variation on Turgenev's best-known drama (at the National Theater), presents
love as an incurable disease for which even palliative care is useless.
''Operation Crucible,'' a smashing first play by Kieran Knowles, which ended its
run at the Finborough Theater earlier this month, finds four British lads
enduring acute psychological and physical anguish while buried beneath the
rubble of a bombed hotel in Sheffield in 1940.

At the Young Vic, the dank, acrid and unmistakable stench of human guilt rose
from the stage in the frantic new adaptation by Nick Gill of that great,
archetypal portrait of existential shame, Franz Kafka's ''The Trial.''
Meanwhile, at the Donmar Warehouse, where Abi Morgan's acerbic ''Splendour''
plays through Sept. 26, the stage is bordered by a glittering field of broken
glass, one big bloodletting accident just waiting to happen. And, yes, by the
night's end, someone will indeed walk barefoot upon the shards.

As in ''Bakkhai,'' libation figures prominently in ''Splendour,'' which portrays
four, mutually contemptuous women gathered for an evening of evasion and
confrontation, as the revolution-torn city around them erupts into flames. The
drink they share, and occasionally choke on, is appropriately fiery. It's chili
vodka, which was presented to the hostess of this anxious, improvised soiree
earlier in the day by a friend who explained that the liquor allows you ''to
enjoy the pain'' of its spice.

If that sounds like a form of punishment, albeit an especially luxe one, that is
no doubt the playwright's intention. ''Splendour'' is set in a private salon in
a dictator's palace in an unspecified country. And make no mistake, this room is
an antechamber to hell for Micheleine (Sinéad Cusack, at the top of her game),
the dictator's glamorous and disdainful wife, who suggests a couture-bedecked
combination of Imelda Marcos and Michèle Duvalier.

In the company of her resentfully servile best friend (a pitch-perfect Michelle
Fairley, late of ''Game of Thrones'') and a light-fingered, covetous interpreter
from the working classes (Zawe Ashton), Micheleine is waiting -- and waiting and
waiting -- for her husband to arrive for a session with an icy photojournalist
(Genevieve O'Reilly). Tautly directed by Robert Hastie, ''Splendour'' is
presented in recurring and reflective fragments, as if the plot itself were
being reassembled from the pieces of shattered mirror.

Though thematically appropriate, this device operates more as a distraction than
an illumination for a play that ultimately offers up few real surprises. But Ms.
Morgan -- whose other work includes the screenplay for ''The Iron Lady,'' for
which Meryl Streep won an Oscar portraying Margaret Thatcher -- has a keen ear
for the arrogant, elegant knife-edge politeness of people in power.

And Ms. Cusack (last seen on Broadway in Tom Stoppard's ''Rock 'n' Roll'')
wields her character's graciousness like a stiletto. There's agony in her eyes,
but her condescending and implicitly threatening smile seldom falters. If she
has any regrets about the path that has taken her to the edge of an abyss, she's
certainly not betraying them to us.

The same cannot be said of poor, beleaguered Joseph K, the passive protagonist
of ''The Trial,'' played by the wonderful Rory Kinnear with a transparency that
reveals every stain of shame on his character's muddled psyche. Directed by
Richard Jones, this production, which ended its run on Sunday, presents life as
a teeming, nonstop carnival of culpability.

At the center of the show's runway of a set (designed by Miriam Buether) is a
conveyor belt, which turns Joseph's life into a tawdry, unceasing treadmill that
he can never step off. As in the novel, Joseph wakens to the news that he has
been accused of some unspecified crime, of which he can never prove himself
innocent.

As Mr. Gill presents it, the guilt is specifically sexual in nature. And Joseph
finds himself enumerating examples of bad behavior (like spying on a girl in a
shower or masturbating into women's underclothes) throughout his life. In the
meantime, a host of young women (all played by the vibrant Katie O'Flynn) throw
themselves in his path as inducements to further crimes of the flesh.

Fleshing out (as it were) Joseph K's erotic history in this manner dilutes the
ambiguous menace of Kafka's fable-like novel. But the production achieves its
presumed goal of making those watching it feel complicit, voyeuristic and
tarnished. The always visible audience members are seated in tiers on the side
of the stage, like an extended jury of Joseph's peers. And Mimi Jordan Sherin's
bilious, buttery lighting turns everyone, on and offstage, the color of
jaundice.

It's the sort of show that infects your vision for hours after you've seen it.
And it felt bizarrely synergistic when, as I emerged blearily onto the streets
of London in the late afternoon, my eye was caught by the blaring headline on a
sandwich board for The Evening Standard, announcing the Ashley Madison hacking
scandal: ''LOVE CHEATS IN THE CITY, UN AND VATICAN EXPOSED.''

It was almost a relief to slip into the shadows of mountainous, ancient Thebes
that night at the Almeida, which is devoting its current season to Greek
tragedy. (Its earlier, acclaimed ''Oresteia'' has moved to the West End.) Not
that ''Bakkhai,'' Euripides' piercing swan song, is exactly an upper. But James
Macdonald's production brings out the high theatrical wit as well as the
atavistic terror in this portrait of a repressed, judgmental head of state who
gets in touch with his inner hedonist -- and his feminine side -- with
disastrous results.

That's Kadmos, played here by Bertie Carvel, who appeared to brilliant advantage
as the monstrous headmistress Miss Trunchbull in ''Matilda the Musical.'' Here
we first see him clean-cut, handsome and unmistakably male in a bespoke suit,
looking rather like Britain's current Prime Minister, David Cameron. But before
the play's end, he's back in drag, in outfits that include a Chanel-like
ensemble that Miss Trunchbull could never have afforded.

His changes in wardrobe are brought about through the ministrations of Dionysos,
whom Mr. Whishaw plays with an epicene authority that finds a frightening power
in androgyny and is perfectly in keeping with contemporary fashion's drift
toward unisex attire. (Love that drapey T-shirt he wears in the opening scene.)

But it's the chorus here that gives this ''Bakkhai'' its throbbing, seductive
pulse. Made up entirely of women, the followers of Dionysos, this is a truly
chthonic chorus such as I've never seen in an English adaptation of Greek
tragedy. These ladies sing most of their words, in eerie, rapt harmonies and
primal chants that seem alternately celestial and bestial.

As awful and bloody as the play's denouement is, there is exaltation in the
collective voice of the chorus, a sense of something born of the earth reaching
for the heavens. This old world may be a vale of pain. But undeniable elements
of beauty exist here, too. The ''Bakkhai'' fully and ineffably acknowledges the
existence of the solace within the torture.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/theater/ben-brantley-on-london-theater-where-c
haracters-drink-to-dull-the-pain-of-life.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Whishaw plays several roles in ''Bakkhai'' at the Almeida
Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC BRENNER) (AR1)
Top, Benedict Cumberbatch in ''Hamlet.'' From far left, Steven Beard and Rory
Kinnear in ''The Trial.'' Below left, Genevieve O'Reilly and Sinéad Cusack in
''Splendour.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHAN PERSSON
 KEITH PATTISON) (AR6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%);
DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); DEATH & DYING (71%); PALLIATIVE CARE (62%); HOTELS &
MOTELS (50%)

PERSON: BENEDICT CUMBERBATCH (92%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (67%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brooke Botsford, William Sinclair

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 164 words


Brooke Suzanne Botsford, the daughter of Susan Perkins Botsford and Alan C.
Botsford Jr. of Boston, was married Saturday in Newport, R.I., to William
Christopher Sinclair, a son of Margaret D. Sinclair and Christopher A. Sinclair
of Palm Beach, Fla. The Rev. John W. Rick III, an Episcopal priest, performed
the ceremony in the chapel at St. George's School, from which the bride
graduated.

Mrs. Sinclair, 27, is the chief operating officer at InsideHook, a digital media
company in New York. She graduated from the University of Virginia. Her father
is the president of Benson Botsford, a private investment firm in Boston. Her
mother was Miss America in 1978.

Mr. Sinclair, 30, is an executive director in an asset management division of
JPMorgan Chase in New York. He graduated from Wake Forest and received an M.B.A.
from Columbia. His father is the chairman and chief executive of Mattel in El
Segundo, Calif.

The couple met at New York restaurant in 2012, through a mutual friend.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/brooke-botsford-william-sincl
air.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LRC PHOTOGRAPHY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS
(71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL
BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%);
FLORIDA, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Dark Ages of Giuliani

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words


If the offenses of Donald J. Trump weren't getting played out by the hour at the
volume of a jackhammer in competition with a Nascar event, then recent comments
by another New Yorker synonymous with unchecked expressiveness, and also touched
by the pixie dust of presidential aspiration, might be generating more outrage.
In an interview with NBC's local news channel in New York, former Mayor Rudolph
W. Giuliani explained, with both glee and self-regard, that not long ago he had
paid a visit to the 19th Precinct station house on the Upper East Side to
complain about a homeless man who had taken up residence on his block.

''Do you know when people lived on the streets and didn't use bathrooms
inside?'' he said. ''It's called the Dark Ages.''

Needless to say, Mr. Giuliani did not pause and follow up that remark with,
''And how disgraceful that so many centuries later we are still not able to
house all of our neediest.'' He instead went on to remind us how in the 1990s,
his ''brain'' and Police Commissioner William J. Bratton's ''people'' got rid of
the homeless, the panhandlers, the nuisances. ''You chase 'em and you chase 'em
and you chase 'em and you chase 'em, and they either get the treatment that they
need or you chase 'em out of the city.'' (Clearly we should be enticing the
naked ladies of Times Square to head to Atlantic City, maybe with brunch coupons
for Trump Taj Mahal.)

Advocates for the homeless responded with fury, pointing out that Mr. Giuliani's
views were ''morally appalling'' and ignored the way that his own policies had
fueled the crisis of homelessness. Of course, his conception of those with no
place to live as essentially a gross inconvenience for the rest of us is hardly
singular. In recent weeks, an unsettling narrative has unfolded in New York,
promoted in large part but by no means exclusively in the tabloid press,
demonizing the homeless as a growing presence and a threat to bourgeois life.
''Going to the Park? Don't Trip on a Bum,'' read a headline in The New York
Post.

Over the summer, pictures of people sleeping on the streets have been posted on
social media with insinuations that their presence is proof that the city is
returning to the mayhem of the 1970s. This would suggest that we knew something
definitive about the propensity of homeless people to commit serious crimes. We
don't. Years ago, a researcher at Johns Hopkins University looked at arrest
records in Baltimore for 1983 and found that although homeless people were more
likely to commit nonviolent offenses like camping without a permit and indecent
exposure, they were less likely to commit crimes against people or property.
Homeless people themselves are considerably imperiled; last year, a report from
the National Coalition for the Homeless revealed that from 1999 to 2013 there
had been 1,437 documented acts of violence in 47 states perpetrated against
homeless people by those who were not homeless.

Last year, the number of homeless men, women and children in New York City
reached record levels, in large part because of failed or discontinued policies
implemented during the Bloomberg years; the issue of affordable housing is
obviously one of the most serious and vexing facing the de Blasio
administration. At the same time, the number of people spending the night in
city shelters, the metric by which the homeless population is measured, has, in
fact, been in steady month-to-month decline since December.

This has not stopped the Sergeants Benevolent Association in New York City from
implementing an initiative aimed at getting members and their friends and
families to photograph homeless people lying on the street or urinating in
public and posting those pictures online. (What could be more benevolent?) The
association's president has said the campaign -- called Peek-a-Boo We See You
Too! -- was a response to ''the diminishing'' of the city's reputation as a
pre-eminently safe place. ''It's outing,'' as the actor Richard Gere remarked to
me recently.

We were talking about the new film he has produced and in which he stars, ''Time
Out of Mind,'' due next week. It is one of three movies that will be released in
fairly quick succession that deal with homelessness in New York, including a
documentary about a former male model who now works as a photographer and who
lives on a fire escape, ''Homme Less,'' and a feature film, ''Shelter,'' written
and directed by Paul Bettany. Mr. Gere's film had been in development since the
late 1980s. ''Unfortunately, it was still relevant,'' he said.

Mr. Gere has worked with the Coalition for the Homeless for years; he has spent
time in shelters; and as a longtime New Yorker, he has committed himself to
thinking about his encounters with homeless people. ''I went through a period
where I insisted on talking, and then I realized how abusive that was -- asking
people about their stories and these intimate details of their lives,'' he said.
Now he gives every homeless person he sees some money -- from $1 to $5 -- and
moves on.

Spare and free of melodrama, ''Time Out of Mind'' examines the immiserating
realities of dealing with the bureaucracy around the shelter system and other
social services. The film takes great care to render the assault of noise, the
difficulties that homeless people have getting any sleep anywhere, and the kind
of madness that it produces. It should remind anyone who might have forgotten
that homelessness isn't awful because it degrades the streetscape; it is awful
because it degrades lives.

Email: bigcity@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/rudolph-giulianis-outrage-on-homeless
ness-and-richard-geres.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rudolph W. Giuliani in a charity golf event at the Trump Golf
Links in the Bronx last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (MB1)
 Richard Gere produced and stars in ''Time Out of Mind,'' a film about
homelessness in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLD IRON PICTURES) (MB5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%);
INTERVIEWS (76%); PANHANDLING (75%); POLICE FORCES (71%); ARRESTS (66%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); DONALD TRUMP (88%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA
(64%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (64%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Berkshire Hathaway Builds Stake in Oil Refiner

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 384 words


Berkshire Hathaway, the holding company led by Warren E. Buffett, disclosed a
$4.48 billion stake in the oil refiner Phillips 66, rebuilding a bet Berkshire
had made in the energy industry before oil prices fell.

Berkshire's stake of 57.98 million shares, or roughly 10.8 percent of the stock,
was revealed on Friday night in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Phillips 66 shares closed at $77.23 on Friday.

Mr. Buffett's company once held a large stake in Phillips 66, which is based in
Houston, but shed nearly two-thirds of it in February 2014 when Berkshire
swapped $1.35 billion worth of shares for a chemicals business that it folded
into its Lubrizol unit.

Crude oil prices have since fallen more than half, though Phillips 66's share
price has dropped less than 1 percent.

A Phillips 66 spokesman, Dennis Nuss, said on Saturday that the oil company did
not comment on specific shareholders.

Berkshire may have begun rebuilding its Phillips 66 stake in the second quarter,
when it bought $3.09 billion of equities over all.

In an Aug. 14 S.E.C. filing detailing its United States stock holdings,
Berkshire did not mention Phillips 66 -- after previously reporting a stake of
7.5 million shares as of March 31 -- but said it had disclosed some information
confidentially to the regulator.

The S.E.C. sometimes lets Berkshire, which is based in Omaha, privately disclose
details so that Mr. Buffett can quietly buy a large amount of stock without
worrying about investors piggybacking on what they may think to be the famed
investor's stamp of approval. Mr. Buffett did this in 2013, when Berkshire
amassed a $3.45 billion stake in Exxon Mobil. Mr. Buffett sold that stake in the
fourth quarter of last year.

Berkshire does not normally say whether Mr. Buffett or his portfolio managers,
Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, make specific investments, but larger investments
are generally Mr. Buffett's.

Since April, Phillips 66 shares have traded around or slightly above their
current price, except for a brief drop last week to nearly $70.

Berkshire ended June owning $117.7 billion worth of equities. It also owns more
than 80 businesses. On Aug. 10, Berkshire said it would buy Precision Castparts,
which makes parts for the aerospace and energy industries, for $32.3 billion.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/business/berkshire-hathaway-takes-larger-stake
-in-phillips-66.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY REGULATION & POLICY
(90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES
(90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICES (90%); ENERGY &
UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTRICITY
TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL
PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING &
FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%);
CHEMICALS (69%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (92%); PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP (63%); EXXON
MOBIL CORP (58%); LUBRIZOL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (92%); BRK.A (NYSE) (92%); PCP (NYSE) (63%); XOM (NYSE)
(58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS524130
REINSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%);
NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS331513
STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (63%); NAICS331512 STEEL INVESTMENT
FOUNDRIES (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110
PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION
(58%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (89%)

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (74%)

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stakes So High, Democrats Get a Go-To Bank

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1499 words


When Ready for Hillary, a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ''super PAC,'' wanted to
take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of
business, it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York
City garment workers.

When the Democracy Alliance, an influential club of liberal donors, sought to
recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections, the bank's president helped to
make introductions.

And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for
unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores, Amalgamated Bank,
which manages $40 billion in pension fund assets, stepped in again, rounding up
fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and
shareholder actions.

Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis, Amalgamated has
aggressively carved out a position as the left's private banker, leveraging deep
connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long
dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.

The bank's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern
campaigns, which demand increasingly specialized financial services, but by
their vastly expanded scale: Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected
for both parties in 2016, bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions
of dollars more.

And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their
left-leaning counterparts this year, Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated
as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning
philanthropists.

Founded and still principally owned by labor unions, the 92-year-old bank has
signed up hundreds of new political clients, including most of the Democratic
Party's major committees, the progressive organizations that align with them,
and several of their top Senate recruits.

This spring, Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet, winning the main business
for Mrs. Clinton's presidential campaign, which is likely to raise a billion
dollars or more.

Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service, staffed by veterans
of President Obama's campaigns, to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile
election paperwork.

Because it knows their donor world, Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on
new contributions, almost immediately. It works directly with ''caging''
companies that process campaigns' direct-mail donations, making the money
available in hours, rather than days or weeks. The bank's wire room stays open
until just before 6 p.m., hours later than most commercial banks, to enable cash
transfers to TV stations.

That flexibility, Democrats said, helped allow their campaigns to more fully
exploit the sophisticated targeting and data tools that have ramped up the
tactical pace of election campaigns, in which the ability to execute
hour-by-hour decisions is constrained only by cash flow.

''Two hours make a big difference,'' said Rebecca Pearcey, the campaign manager
for Ted Strickland, an Ohio Democrat seeking election to the Senate in 2016.
''Especially if it is two weeks before the election, and you know that people in
Akron are going to be watching 'Wheel of Fortune' on Thursday and you need to
get in front of them.''

In some instances, Amalgamated has served as a kind of lender of last resort for
campaigns and super PACs, organizations with little or no credit history and
erratic cash flow. Ready for Hillary, for example, was founded two years ago and
intended to stay in business only until Mrs. Clinton got into the 2016
presidential race, building lists of small donors and grass-roots organizers
that could later be made available to her campaign.

In October, the group sought $1 million so it could accelerate those efforts
before it closed down. Amalgamated, officials at the now-closed super PAC said,
was willing to underwrite the loan against the flow of future contributions.

Keith Mestrich, a former union official who became the bank's president last
year, said in an interview that he could not discuss specific clients, but that
finding creative ways to serve allies effectively was important to the bank's
mission.

''As our progressive partners have real issues they are grappling with, we can
take the time and energy to come up with a fix to the problems they have,'' Mr.
Mestrich said.

Candidates of both parties often keep at least some of their money in home-state
banks, for appearance's sake.

But many Republican candidates and super PACs, including Jeb Bush and the
deep-pocketed super PAC supporting him, do the bulk of their banking with their
own version of Amalgamated, the smaller Chain Bridge Bank, based in McLean, Va.
Founded by Peter Fitzgerald, the former Republican senator from Illinois, Chain
Bridge broke into political banking amid the 2008 financial crisis when the
Republican presidential nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, was looking for
a safe place to deposit his war chest. He chose it for its Republican pedigree
and low-risk balance sheet.

But unlike competitors, Amalgamated marries its political banking business to
$40 billion in trust assets, mostly union pension funds, that it has used to
help activist investors who share its ideological bent.

Amalgamated has been a lead plaintiff in several of the largest derivative
lawsuits in recent years, including a successful $150 million lawsuit against
Duke Energy, one of the largest power companies in the country.

The bank is now involved in an effort to lobby state lawmakers in Delaware,
where about half of all publicly traded United States corporations are
incorporated, to prevent businesses domiciled there from shifting the costs of
shareholder lawsuits onto investors.

Amalgamated also has deep ties to the liberal philanthropic and nonprofit
worlds, including liberal foundations that finance abortion and gay rights
causes, some of them clients.

In recent months, it has begun branching into what amounts to political
investment banking, helping progressive organizations recruit donors.

Mr. Mestrich, the bank's president, now heads the recruitment committee for the
Democracy Alliance, which funnels tens of millions of dollars annually into
left-leaning political groups.

Amalgamated is also helping another client, the League of Conservation Voters,
organize a fund-raiser for pro-environment Senate candidates, scheduled for the
fall.

''They are starting to be a key partner in terms of protecting the environment
on a wide range of strategies,'' said Gene Karpinski, the president of the
League of Conservation Voters. ''That includes major efforts such as joining in
litigation and shareholder resolution activities.''

But doing well by its ideological allies is also good business for Amalgamated,
which was founded by the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America in 1923 to
provide loans and savings accounts to garment workers. (That union's successor,
Workers United, remains the bank's majority owner.)

The longer the campaign season stretches, and the earlier candidates begin
raising and spending money, the more money Amalgamated has on deposit and the
more fees it collects.

And while political banking is too small a market for the largest banks to
bother specializing in, it is a significant area of growth for Amalgamated.

The bank nearly collapsed in 2011 after it was forced to write off $150 million
in subprime loans. An expanding commercial banking business, including an
increase in political clients, has helped the bank bounce back.

''Financial services goes through these cycles where at one point it is all the
megacompanies, and since people get lost in the shuffle, you have these
boutiques spring up and then they do well,'' said Wilbur L. Ross, the
billionaire New York investor, who invested $50 million in Amalgamated as part
of a 2011 deal to replenish the bank's capital reserves. ''I think there's a
real need for the kinds of things that Amalgamated is doing.''

Mr. Mestrich, formerly the chief financial officer at the Service Employees
International Union, joined the bank's Washington office in 2012 and put a
special emphasis on expanding the bank's political business beyond unions.

Seventy-one new clients have signed up in 2015 alone, according to Federal
Election Commission filings, including the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee, the party's three main super PACs and the liberal opposition research
group founded by David Brock, a Clinton ally.

''We have to run an extremely well-run institution that properly assesses risk,
that is willing to work with other organizations but not take chances that put
the bank at risk,'' Mr. Mestrich said. ''At the end of the day, we have to be a
solid financial institution that is around for many years.''

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/us/politics/owned-by-union-amalgamated-bank-gi
ves-lift-to-the-left.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Keith Mestrich, head of Amalgamated Bank, with a collection of
political buttons. The bank has deep connections to Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GABRIELLA DEMCZUK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2012 (89%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES
(78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%);
GARMENT WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%);
FACTORY WORKERS (77%); WIRE TRANSFERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); PENSION FUNDS
(74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (72%); APPAREL MFG (72%);
WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING
(71%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MARKETING &
ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); LITIGATION (69%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (66%);
SUITS & CLAIMS (55%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Comments

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 321 words


The Creamery and the Colossus

In ''Gobbled Up, but Still Doing Good for the World'' (Revalued, Aug. 23), David
Gelles looked at how the social mission of the ice cream company Ben & Jerry's
Homemade fared after its purchase in 2000 by Unilever. He concluded that Ben &
Jerry's ''is proceeding with its activism-infused capitalism,'' in part because
of its autonomy and because of an external board that oversees its culture and
social mission.

The article received 112 comments on nytimes.com. The following have been edited
and condensed.

Perhaps other small corporations will be able to negotiate such deals with big
business, so that the social values of the people will have a louder voice in
their operations after a corporate takeover than before.

D.H., Philadelphia

Shame on The New York Times for not doing its homework and continuing to
propagate the myth of shareholder primacy. It's true that Ben & Jerry's and its
board had a fiduciary duty to shareholders, but that did not mean they had to
accept Unilever's highest bid. Rarely are boards found to be liable for making
decisions in the best interest of the company (not the shareholders), and if
they use good business judgment, they can say no, even if they are publicly
traded.

Lisa Katovich, Berkeley

Ben & Jerry's may pay its employees quite well and may be environmentally and
civically conscious, but its ice cream leads that of almost all manufacturers in
amounts of sugar and fat. It's nice to pay people well and be environmentally
friendly, but the people who purchase Ben & Jerry's are still eating junk food.

Mark Jeffery Koch, Mount Laurel, N.J.

''It developed chemical-free containers.''

Oh really, no chemicals? Is the ice cream contained in tub-shaped magnetic
fields? Or maybe they learned how to link neutrinos to form freezer-safe
packaging?

Tom, Burlington, Vt.

Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); TAKEOVERS
(77%); JUNK FOODS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (68%);
ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%)

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (95%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (58%)

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (58%); UNA (BIT) (58%); UNA (AMS) (58%); UN (NYSE) (58%);
ULVR (LSE) (58%); UL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2024
ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (95%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING
(58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311412
FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE &
VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (58%)

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (50%)

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tea With the Queen? In Their Dreams

BYLINE: By NEAL ASCHERSON.

A journalist and writer, and the author of ''Stone Voices: The Search for
Scotland.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1070 words


LONDON -- QUEEN ELIZABETH II, at 89, is a very old lady. By day, her subjects
see less of her than they used to. But by night, it's different. Then she and
her family visit millions of households up and down the kingdom. Up to a third
of Britons have dreams about Her Majesty and the royals.

According to ''Dreams About H.M. the Queen and Other Members of the Royal
Family,'' the classic study by Brian Masters, author of several books about the
British aristocracy, the dreams frequently involve cups of tea. A characteristic
scenario is that she, or sometimes he, settles down at your kitchen table. She
remarks on what a nice cup of tea you make. Then she says: ''You don't know what
a relief it is to talk to somebody normal and ordinary like you. I'm at my wits'
end how to deal with my grandchildren, I can tell you.''

That, in summary, is roughly how most royal dreams go. Not only loyal
monarchists have them. To their intense shame, fiercely red republicans get
them, too. Sometimes, when princesses appear, there's a shy glint of the erotic.
But mostly, these are dreams of reassurance. The very fact that royalty can come
down to our level and be ''normal'' actually reinforces their magical
''specialness.''

In less than two weeks' time, the queen will have reigned for 63 years and 217
days, overtaking the record set by her awe-inspiring great-great-grandmother
Queen Victoria (1837-1901). By the time the Widow of Windsor finally passed,
imperial Britain found a post-Victorian epoch a baffling prospect. For Britons
today, who have themselves grown old with this stolid but much-loved lady, a
post-Elizabethan age looks like a dismal abyss.

The recent fuss over a newly unearthed film clip, showing Elizabeth as a young
girl and her mother giving a comic ''Heil Hitler'' salute, was revealing. Nobody
quite dared to ask if the Windsors were, as a family, seriously pro-Nazi in the
early 1930s. Much like the persistence of royal dreams, that reluctance to
confront troubling and awkward issues shows how powerfully the monarchy still
grips the English imagination. (Scottish attitudes are a different matter;
Northern Irish, too.)

English loyalty to the Crown, though, is growing strikingly ambivalent. Mystic
awe is combined with touchy social resentment -- a sense of ''when it comes down
to it, they're no better than the rest of us.'' More potent still, Britain's
establishment might change its mind if there were another royal crisis like
Edward VIII's abdication in 1936, deciding that the monarchy had become more of
a liability to its interests than a protection.

Nobody knows whether the queen intends to abdicate, or whether -- like Pope John
Paul II -- she is determined to die in office. More accurately, she and a tiny
palace circle almost certainly do know, and have no intention of sharing their
knowledge. But however her reign ends, Prince Charles is due to succeed her as
king.

Now in late middle age, Charles lacks dream magic. He appears all too human: a
well-meaning person tormented by what he sees as the mounting callousness, greed
and ugliness of the world. Being Prince of Wales has seemed, for him, a penance:
something that he believes he must bear, but which he does not enjoy.

A few years ago, it was widely thought that he might reject the succession on
his mother's death and pass the crown directly to his son William. This no
longer seems likely, in spite of William's wildly popular marriage to Kate
Middleton. Charles's sense of duty will prevail. He may dread becoming king, but
he will grit his teeth and think of Britain.

The media and some politicians fear that he will be an interfering monarch.
Charles has a record of writing private letters to cabinet ministers about
projects affecting his pet causes: architecture, the environment, organic food.
These ''black spider'' letters, so called because of his handwriting, were
regarded by some as evidence of direct royal interference in government affairs,
violating Britain's unwritten constitution under which the sovereign must
maintain strict political neutrality.

The letters themselves, when freedom of information lawyers finally dragged them
out of secrecy, proved harmless: They contained mild suggestions that this or
that consideration should be remembered. In any case, the royals are not
politically neutral. The queen failed to hide her alarm over Scotland's
independence referendum last year, and Britain's prime minister, David Cameron,
revealed that when he called to tell her that the Scots had voted narrowly to
stay in the Union, Elizabeth ''purred'' down the telephone.

But Scotland, its independence movement still accelerating, remains a challenge
to the monarchy. The Scottish National Party insists that an independent
Scotland would invite Elizabeth to stay on as ''Queen of Scots,'' harking back
to 17th-century times when England and Scotland were separate states sharing a
monarch.

This pledge, though, overlooks Scotland's grumbling republicans, who are a much
louder minority than they are in England. That thousands recently signed a
petition against a new hospital in Glasgow being named ''the Queen Elizabeth''
indicated how thin traditional deference has worn in Scotland.

The Scots tend to judge the monarchy by the personality on the throne. The
English, in contrast, have revered the institution: A bad king or queen did not
affect the magical glamour of the Crown.

But this is changing, and the queen herself has helped to bring about the
change. By giving the media wider access to the royal family, she has moved the
focus from anachronistic court pageantry toward modern celebrity culture. As she
remarked, with a certain dry wit: ''I have to be seen to be believed!''

The uproar that followed Princess Diana's death in 1997 showed that English
people could reproach the queen personally, for slighting ''the people's
princess.'' That storm blew over, and Elizabeth is today as welcome in her
subjects' dreams as ever. But as her reign nears its end, the emphasis on
person, rather than Crown, becomes ominous.

The British increasingly fear that Charles may be a weak, unpredictable king. If
they are right, will the 1,000-year splendor of the Crown outweigh people's
impatience with an elderly, melancholy man who finds it a burden to reign?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/tea-with-the-queen-in-their-dreams.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Queen Elizabeth II on her way on May 27 to the Palace of
Westminster in a horse-drawn coach for the Queen's Speech, which marks the
official opening of Parliament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (79%); BRITISH
ROYALTY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); HIGH SOCIETY (71%);
WRITERS (70%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); WESTMINSTER, ENGLAND (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (77%); SCOTLAND
(77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Merrill West, Ryan Hardy

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 156 words


Merrill Elizabeth West and Ryan Wayne Hardy are to be married Sunday at Cherry
Hill in Central Park. The Rev. Dr. R. Scott Colglazier, a Congregationalist
minister and a friend of the bride's family, is to officiate.

The bride, 36, who will continue to use her name professionally, is the
assistant to the choreographer and director of shows at Busch Gardens in
Williamsburg, Va. In 2013, she performed with the ensemble of ''Hello Dolly'' at
Ford's Theater in Washington. From 1996 to 2008, she was a Rockette. She
graduated from N.Y.U.

She is the daughter of Dian C. West and Walter B. West of Fort Worth.

Mr. Hardy, 37, is a criminal defense and family lawyer at Hardy Law Group, which
he founded in Fort Worth. He graduated from the University of Texas and received
a law degree from South Texas College of Law.

He is the son of Cheril S. Hardy of Fort Worth and Wayne M. Hardy of Boyd, Tex.,
and is the stepson of Joyce E. Hardy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/merrill-west-ryan-hardy.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LAW
SCHOOLS (85%); CHOREOGRAPHY (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); LAWYERS (69%)

COMPANY: HARDY LAW GROUP (70%); BUSCH GARDENS WILLIAMSBURG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (70%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (70%);
NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%)

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (86%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Multilingual Expression

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ROSMAN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; NOTED; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 646 words


On Sunday night, two icons of commercialized youth rebellion will come together:
the MTV Video Music Awards and Miley Cyrus's tongue.

It was at the awards ceremony two years ago that Ms. Cyrus shocked viewers with
a performance of ''We Can't Stop'' and ''Blurred Lines'' with Robin Thicke, a
bawdy medley in which Ms. Cyrus repeatedly stuck out her tongue and other
gyrating body parts.

This year, MTV has doubled down on the once squeaky-clean star by enlisting her
to host its annual awards show. It is almost certain that, among the viewing
public, tongues will wag.

Elsewhere, too. The Miley Effect (the Miley Virus?) has worked its way across
the Internet, with legions of selfie-posters posing for the camera (often their
own) with their tongues sticking out. Some of these photos have a sexualized
aesthetic, but many more reveal tongues as playful accessories of those who
feel, perhaps, a little silly for taking and sharing their own pictures. They
think a funny face will help convey a tongue-in-cheekness.

Sarah Ramanuj, 24, doesn't remember when she began sticking her tongue out in
photos. ''It came to me naturally,'' she said. ''And I've been called out on it,
with friends saying, 'You have your tongue out in every single picture.' ''

But it's a small way to give a sense of her personality. ''In our generation,
everything is judged through social media and I've always been a person who has
a sense of humor and takes things lightly,'' she said.

D'Metrius Rice, 34, a visual artist in Baltimore who is inspired by theology and
philosophy, found himself captivated by photos of women sticking their tongues
out in selfies, so he began to take and collect screen shots of them. To share
the bounty, he started the @TongueSelfie Instagram feed several months ago.

Mr. Rice gravitates toward ''more pronounced, more drastic pictures,'' he said.
''I think that goes back to iconography of my childhood: the Rolling Stones,
Kiss logos, cartoon characters.'' (Sweepstakes, a Baltimore band, earlier this
year released an album called ''Tongues Out.'' Mr. Rice supplied the cover art.)

There is a sexual quality that appeals to him, Mr. Rice said, but he also likes
the way a tongue selfie punctures the airbrushed perfection so prevalent on the
Web. Selfies, he said, ''are officialized photos'' and he respects people who
are willing to thwart ''restraint and calculation.''

Alexandra Figueredo, 34, a marketing consultant in Miami, prefers a popular
variation of the tongue selfie, which features people and their dogs -- tongues
extended.

Last year, when Ms. Figueredo adopted her dog Javi, a Havanese, she created for
him an Instagram account to help promote pet adoption. In surfing through other
pet-feeds, she noticed many pet-owner tongue selfies being posted on Tuesdays
with the hashtag #TongueOutTuesday.

Throughout the week, she and Javi pose for selfies and she chooses a Tuesday
post. ''I think he's the cutest when he has his tongue out because he's
smiling,'' she said. (She noted that when she shares one of their tongue selfies
on both her personal feed and her dog's feed, her dog invariably attracts more
comments and ''likes.'')

For Stefanie Faivre, 24, there is little choice involved. She is almost
incapable of simply smiling for a picture, she says. A yoga studio manager who
lives in Old Tappan, N.J., Ms. Faivre crinkles her nose, raises an eyebrow or
sticks her tongue out any time an iPhone lens focuses upon her.

''My boyfriend likes to take pictures of me when we are out in the city, at the
shore or doing anything at all,'' she said. ''I find it awkward. You know when
you're in a public place and you see people posing to look pretty? It's so
cheesy.''

Still, she wants to look cute in her photos, and so she is careful not to show
too much tongue. ''I definitely moderate it,'' she said, ''I mean, I'm not Miley
Cyrus.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/miley-cyruss-tongue-launches-a-thousan
d-selfies.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andy Cohen and Miley Cyrus taking a selfie last June.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN BEDDER/GETTY IMAGES FOR FIJI WATER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); SELFIES (89%);
POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS
(78%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (78%); RECORD RELEASES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%);
DOGS (70%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); VISUAL ARTS (63%); THEOLOGY (62%); SWEEPSTAKES
(60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kathleen McCarthy, Brendan Kelleher

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 223 words


Kathleen Anne McCarthy and Brendan William Kelleher were married Saturday at Our
Lady of Victories Catholic Church in Boston. The Very Rev. Brian R. Kiely, an
uncle of the groom, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Kelleher, 29, is a human resources program manager in New York for Morgan
Stanley. She graduated from Fairfield University.

She is the daughter of Kathleen H. McCarthy and John J. McCarthy of Chelmsford,
Mass. The bride's father is the executive vice president and general manager in
New York for ShoreGroup, a provider of software and network support services.
Her mother is the head of the elementary literacy department for the Lexington
public school system in Lexington, Mass.

Mr. Kelleher, 32, works in New York as an associate director in the prime
brokerage services division of UBS, the Swiss bank, where he coordinates new
client accounts. He also graduated from Fairfield.

He is a son of Camille M. Kelleher and Rory Kelleher of New York. The groom's
mother is a member of the board of Barnard College. His father is a senior
counsel in the New York office of the Chicago law firm Sidley Austin. He also is
the chairman of the board of Catholic Guardian Services of the Archdiocese of
New York.

Ms. McCarthy, a Boston Red Sox fan, and Mr. Kelleher, a Yankees fan, met outside
Yankee Stadium after a game in June 2009.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/kathleen-mccarthy-brendan-kel
leher.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STACEY HEDMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS
& CHRISTIANITY (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (88%); RELIGION (78%); EDUCATION
SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%);
EXECUTIVES (72%); BASEBALL (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS
(64%); HUMAN RESOURCES (57%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%)

COMPANY: SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE
(58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Airborne Couple Has a Soft Landing

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 551 words


Sonya Knapinsky and Lt. Cmdr. Jason Augusta Payne were married Saturday evening
at the Shifting Sands Banquet Club at Naval Air Station Oceana-Dam Neck in
Virginia Beach. Gil Browning, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life
minister for the event, officiated.

The bride, 38, is taking her husband's name. She is a flight attendant with
JetBlue Airways based in Boston. She graduated from Queens College and is a
daughter of Sallyann Knapinsky and Stanley T. Knapinsky of Flushing, Queens.

The groom, 41, is a full-time reservist and recruiter assigned to Naval Reserve
Squadron Tacron 22 at Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story in
Virginia Beach, from which he retired as a combat helicopter pilot. He served a
combined 17 years with the Army infantry and then as a Naval officer and
aviator. He had three tours of duty, in Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and
Iraq. During his Naval service, he spent more than two years, from December 2005
to April 2008, as the commander of troops of the United States Navy Honor Guard,
which presided over Naval ceremonies at Arlington National Cemetery. He
graduated from the University of Houston and is the son of Imogene Payne and
Samuel A. Payne of Hawkins, Tex.

The groom's first marriage ended in divorce.

The couple met in March 2012 at the Women in Aviation conference at a hotel in
Dallas. Ms. Knapinsky had just completed training to be a commercial pilot and
flight instructor at a flight academy in Phoenix, and she was at the convention
seeking a job. He was there to recruit pilots for the Navy.

Ms. Knapinsky was with friends in the hotel lobby bar when she glanced over at a
nearby table and locked eyes with Lt. Cmdr. Payne, who needed to think quickly.

''It's nice to see you again,'' he told her.

''But I don't think I've ever seen you before,'' she said.

Recalling that moment, he laughed and said, ''I spoke to about a thousand women
that day, so I probably lied to her, but it didn't backfire on me so I guess it
was a good line.''

Indeed, it sparked a conversation.

''He had a very deep, engaging voice, and I found him very attractive,
especially that bald head,'' Ms. Knapinsky said with a chuckle. ''We started
talking, and then we were inseparable for the rest of the evening.''

By then, he knew he had found a different kind of recruit.

''She wasn't just pretty, she was very intelligent,'' he said. ''You can tell if
you need to write someone off the moment you meet them, but I was not writing
her off.''

They went out the next night to a country bar in Dallas.

''We went two-stepping,'' she said. ''It was a whole new introduction to him.''

When the conference ended, she went back to her Phoenix home (she also had an
apartment in Flushing), but within a week, she was embarking on a 13-hour drive
from Phoenix to Lubbock, Tex., to visit Lt. Cmdr. Payne, who was posted at the
Naval Officer Recruiting Station there.

Ms. Knapinsky stayed for three days before driving back to Queens and beginning
a long-distance relationship that lasted only two months. As it turned out, she
found a job as a flight instructor in, of all places, Lubbock.

''My whole life, it turned around in a hurry,'' she said. ''I knew by the way
everything had turned out that being with Jason was where I was meant to be.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/sonya-knapinsky-and-jason-pay
ne-an-airborne-couple-has-a-soft-landing.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (92%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMED
FORCES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); ARMIES (78%); US NAVY
(78%); MARRIAGE (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%);
HELICOPTERS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); HOTEL AMENITIES (64%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS
(58%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC
(56%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (55%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR
TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS &
DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (91%); DALLAS, TX, USA
(70%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charlotte Henderson, William Carey II

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 190 words


Charlotte Owen Henderson, a daughter of Kimberley T. James of Mequon, Wis., and
Christopher J. Henderson of Aspen, Colo., was married Saturday evening to
William Polk Carey II, the son of Gretchen F. Carey of Philadelphia and Francis
J. Carey III of Lantana, Fla. The Rev. Marek Zabriskie, an Episcopal priest,
performed the ceremony at St. Martin's in the Field Episcopal Church in
Biddeford Pool, Me.

Mrs. Carey, 27, is the media compliance coordinator in New York for the National
Football League. Her father retired as chairman of Omnivest, an investment
advisory firm in Princeton, N.J.

Mr. Carey, also 27, is an associate in the investments group at W.P. Carey Inc.,
a real estate investment firm in New York founded by his great-uncle William
Polk Carey. The groom is also the president, and his father the chairman, of the
W.P. Carey Foundation in New York, which supports business and law education.

The groom is also on the board of Boys and Girls Harbor, a social services
organization in New York. He graduated from Sewanee: the University of the
South. His mother is a financial adviser in Jenkintown, Pa., for Morgan Stanley.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/charlotte-henderson-william-c
arey-ii.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%);
INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); REAL ESTATE
(68%)

COMPANY: W P CAREY INC (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%)

TICKER: WPC (NYSE) (83%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (83%); NAICS531120
LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (83%); NAICS523120
SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lavish, Stylish, but Not Stuffy

BYLINE: By SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CHECK IN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words


Rates

From 480 euros, about $515 at $1.08 to the euro.

The Basics

The first property in Austria from the Hyatt brand, the 143-room Park Hyatt
opened last summer in a four-columned sandstone building that was the
headquarters of the Austrian Monarchy Bank. The event created a good deal of
buzz because Vienna had not seen a luxury hotel opening in a long while. The
Park Hyatt is now a serious competitor to the city's well-known luxury hotels
such as the Bristol and the Sacher.

Location

The Park Hyatt Vienna is in the picturesque Am Hof Square in the first district,
a central neighborhood that is a Unesco World Heritage site because of its
concentration of such historical attractions as St. Stephen's cathedral and
Hofburg Palace. High-end international retail brands like Prada and Louis
Vuitton as well as local favorites like the department store Steffl are within a
five-minute walk, the Metro is right outside the hotel, and taxis are parked in
front.

The Room

There are 12 room categories including the 8,826-square-foot Royal Penthouse
Suite, and all have modern décor with a handful of traditional accents. In our
Studio King, the second category, the large white marble entryway opened to the
main bedroom, which was furnished with a chaise longue and an oval wood desk as
well as old-fashioned-style gold-leaf lamps and a gold and lapis woven wall
hanging resembling an early 20th-century ladies' brooch. The 40-inch television
was concealed behind a mirror, and the comfortable bed had a leather headboard
with a touch panel screen controlling the curtains and lights. We could also see
a glimpse of St. Stephen's from our window.

The Bathroom

Pleasantly large, the bath had white marble floors and counters, double
hammered-silver sinks, a deep tub, a spacious shower and fluffy white
terry-cloth robes and slippers. We couldn't get enough of the citrus-scented
toiletries custom-made for the hotel by the French perfumer Blaise Mautin.

Amenities

A major draw is the hotel's all-day restaurant, the Bank, which serves classic
cuisine from different European countries, using local products. The spacious
restaurant is housed in what was the bank's former main cashier hall and has
towering, beautifully restored ceilings and an open kitchen design. There are
also two bars including a wood-paneled cigar bar and a lounge serving small
bites and afternoon tea. The basement level has the Arany Spa, with its six
treatment rooms including one for couples, a 50-foot-long pool where the bank's
former vault had been and a large fitness center. Wi-Fi throughout the hotel is
free.

Breakfast

The buffet breakfast is 33 euros and served in the Bank starting at 6:30 a.m.
The generous and tasty spread included five kinds of fresh juice, house-made
granola, several kinds of bread including dark rye, an array of in-season fruit
like sugar-sweet tangerines, close to a dozen cakes and pastries, cheese from
nearby farms, cured meats, eggs made to order and smoked salmon. Room service is
also available.

Bottom Line

With an unbeatable location near popular attractions, standout service and luxe
touches, the Park Hyatt is an easy choice for travelers looking for high-end but
contemporary accommodations in Vienna. It's a departure from many other luxury
hotels in town that have a more traditional and slightly stuffy feel, and,
although it's part of a chain, the historical former bank setting gives it a
nongeneric, authentic sensibility.

Park Hyatt Vienna, Am Hof 2, 43-1-22-740-1234; vienna.park.hyatt.com.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/park-hyatt-vienna-review.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amenities include the hotel's Bank restaurant, above, where a
buffet breakfast is served. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM PARK HYATT VIENNA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%);
COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING
(78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); HISTORIC
DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); RETAILERS (68%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%);
EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%)

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (92%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (92%); MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC6519
LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (92%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE
MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%)

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRIA (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Valentina Castillo, Frederick Hall

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 203 words


Maria Valentina Castillo, the daughter of Dr. Elquis M. Castillo of Gadsden,
Ala., was married Saturday evening to Frederick Gaston Hall, a son of Suzy
Tipson Hall and Joseph A. Hall Jr. of Milford, Ohio. David A. Kimberley, a
friend of the bride's family who is a judge of the 16th Judicial Circuit of
Alabama, officiated at the Biltmore Ballrooms, an event space in Atlanta.

The couple met at Georgetown, where each received a law degree, the groom magna
cum laude.

Mrs. Hall, 27, is known as Valentina. She is a finance associate in the
Washington office of Mayer Brown, a Chicago law firm. She graduated from
Columbia. Her father is an oncologist-hematologist in Gadsden.

Until earlier this month, Mr. Hall, 28, was a law clerk to D. Michael Fisher, a
judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Pittsburgh.
In September he will join the Washington law firm Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd,
Evans & Figel. He graduated summa cum laude from Princeton and received a
master's degree in regional studies-East Asia from Harvard. Until February the
groom's father was a senior vice president at Directions Research, a company in
Cincinnati that develops products for tracking data and social media.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/valentina-castillo-frederick-
hall.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); PHYSICIANS &
SURGEONS (88%); LAWYERS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); ONCOLOGY (68%); APPEALS
COURTS (53%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG HUBER HANSEN TODD EVANS & FIGEL PLLC (83%); MAYER BROWN LLP
(57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN ASIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Nadal, Losing His Shirt Is Old Hat

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SCHNEIER

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 539 words


It was 90 degrees in the sun, the spectators were wilting in the heat, and there
on the court, Rafael Nadal was slicing and lobbing balls back over the net -- in
a full tailored suit.

The United States Open tennis championships begin next week. But for Mr. Nadal
and many of the blue-chip athletes whose lucrative side business is endorsing
and representing brands, the week leading up to the Open is one part practice,
one part celebrity commitments.

''I'm working very hard and working well, I think,'' he said of his Open
preparations. But before then, there's business to attend to.

Mr. Nadal, 29, has just been announced as a global ambassador for Tommy
Hilfiger, the maker of that new, stretchier suit, and will be the face of its
tailored clothing and TH Bold fragrance and the body wearing its underwear
collection.

So it was that, before Arthur Ashe Stadium, Mr. Nadal found himself playing on
Tuesday on a red, white and blue Tommy Hilfiger court in the middle of Bryant
Park, in a game of strip tennis (lose a point, lose an article of clothing)
against a bevy of Hilfiger models.

Had he ever done anything like this before? ''I never did,'' he said with a
laugh after the match, at which he had sacrificed a few accessories (a tie, a
pocket square) and his shirt, but stayed generally besuited. ''It was special,
and we had some fun, I think.''

Stripping down is becoming old hat for Mr. Nadal, who had previously appeared in
various states of undress in ads for Emporio Armani. Coinciding with the Bryant
Park match, the new Hilfiger campaign (featuring Mr. Nadal, sinuous and
muscle-bound in his boxer briefs) began appearing everywhere -- on bus shelters,
billboards and the back page of sections of this newspaper.

An accompanying video shows Mr. Nadal striding into a locker room, taking off
his jeans and then his underwear, with a flirtatious wag of the head.

''You saw the video of him taking the underwear off in the locker room?'' Mr.
Hilfiger asked. ''That was fun.''

Mr. Hilfiger is aiming, unapologetically, for sex appeal. His underwear business
had been big in the 1990s, selling boxers to ''college kids, skaters, all the
young people in the '90s,'' Mr. Hilfiger said. ''Then it sort of quieted down.
We started selling white underwear briefs. White underwear briefs are usually
sold to middle-aged guys. And they weren't sexy anymore.''

Mr. Nadal became not only the model, but a focus group of one. ''I talked to him
at length about what kind of underwear would you wear,'' Mr. Hilfiger said.

Mr. Nadal professed to be unconcerned about being a sex symbol on such public
display.

''I feel lucky to have the chance to be the ambassador of such a great brand as
Tommy Hilfiger,'' he said. ''I don't think much, I don't pay much attention if
I'm the backdrop of the newspaper.''

For the rest of the world, attention is likely to be paid.

''We're doing reverse sexism here,'' said Jane Lynch, the ''Glee'' actress and
comedian who is gay and served as the match's umpire. ''This is great.
Especially the part about Rafa in his underwear. Because that could turn a girl
straight, if you know what I mean.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/26/fashion/rafael-nadal-strip-tennis-before-us-op
en-tommy-hilfiger.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rafael Nadal handed out tennis balls Tuesday in New York's
Bryant Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); TENNIS
TOURNAMENTS (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (71%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (66%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KUEHN, BARBARA ANITA NEE KEMP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 224 words


KUEHN--Barbara Anita nee Kemp, passed away in Needham, Massachusetts on 21
August 2015 after a valiant 25- year battle with cancer. She is survived by her
adored and beloved spouse Bernd Percy Kuehn, her two daughters Catherine
Elizabeth Kuehn Price (Malcolm) and Stephanie Kuehn Vitzthum (Hans), and five
grandchildren; Hans, Klaus and Sophie Vitzthum and Malachi and Camille Price.
Daughter Deborah Ann Kuehn predeceased her. Barbara was born in Swinemuende,
Germany on 26 December 1926 and immigrated first to Canada and then to the
United States, each time to be with Bernd, her high school sweetheart and
greatest love. Doting wife, selfless mother, dog lover, adolescent track star,
operating room nurse, avid tennis player and voracious reader, Barbara devoted
her life to her beloved family and pet poodles and her many friends in all
corners of the world. Private services will be held at a later date. "Set me as
a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm; for love is strong as death,
passion fierce as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, a raging flame."
Song of Solomon 8:6. In lieu of flowers, gifts may be made to Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute in memory of Barbara Kuehn to support cancer research and patient care
at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, P.O. Box 849168, Boston, MA 02284 or via
www.dana-farber.org/gift. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH
(90%); CANCER (90%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (90%); ONCOLOGY (78%);
GRANDCHILDREN (77%); DOGS (74%); ATHLETES (69%); PETS (69%); NURSES & NURSING
(69%)

COMPANY: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE (83%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (58%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KAGEL, STUART TODD, SR.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 304 words


KAGEL--Stuart Todd, Sr.,71, of Brooklyn Heights, NY died unexpectedly Tuesday at
his summer home on Skaneateles Lake. Born in Sebring, FL to Lewis and Elizabeth
Kagel, Stuart graduated from Choate Rosemary Hall where he was a three-sport
athlete. Following that, he attended UNC Chapel Hill, graduating in 1966. Stuart
played UNC football and was a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity.

After college, he joined the JC Penney Co in their executive training program,
and subsequently became a co- owner of Kelly Slax, an apparel company. Stuart
continued his entrepreneurial vision, starting several companies in the 1990's.
In 2000 he co-founded 24 Seven Inc., a global strategic staffing and recruiting
company, headquartered in New York City. Stuart was an avid outdoorsman as well
as a sporting art and antiques collector. In 2014 he completed his unique
collection of original art by every Federal Duck Stamp artist since its
inception in 1934. He is survived by his partner of 27 years, Celeste Gudas; two
sons, Stuart Todd (Alejandra) Kagel, Jr. of Fairfield, CT and James Albert Kagel
of Brooklyn Heights; two daughters, Eleanor Elizabeth Kagel and Katherine Gudas
Kagel, both of Brooklyn Heights; one brother, Colin Todd (Jane) Kagel of East
Haddam, CT; one sister, Kathleen Hutchins of Princeton, NJ; three grandchildren,
Emma Chamberlain Kagel, Gabriela Burnham Kagel, and Stuart Todd Kagel, III; and
six nieces and nephews, Colin, Jr., and Joshua Kagel, and Bevin, Lewis
(deceased), Elizabeth, and Colin Cherot. A memorial service will be held on
September 9th at 11:00am at Plymouth Church of the Pilgrims in Brooklyn Heights.
Memorial donations may be made to Skaneateles Lake Association http://skaneate
leslake.org/support-the-sla- through-amazon-smiles/ or Finger Lakes Land Trust
http://fllt.org/donate/. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); COLLECTORS &
COLLECTING (73%); LAKES (73%); ART COLLECTING (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES
(73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%)

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CO INC (83%); 24 SEVEN INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ALPHA TAU OMEGA (57%)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES
(EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES
(83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES
(70%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FOX, GERALD S.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 255 words


FOX--Gerald S.,of Plainview, NY. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother,
uncle, and friend, passed away peacefully on August 23, 2015. He was 88 years
old.

A man of many talents, passions, and great intellect, Jerry served in the U.S.
Navy during the Second World War and later graduated from the City College of
New York. He went on to earn a Master's Degree in Electrical Engineering from
the Newark College of Engineering. As an employee of Grumman Aerospace
Corporation, he worked on emergency back up systems for the acclaimed F-14
fighter jet. He was also a superb cook and won the New York State Cooking
Championship of 1969. Jerry was a founding member of the Gustav Mahler Society
of New York and served as its president from 1987 to 2009. His encyclopedic
knowledge of, and passion for Mahler was widely respected. He lectured
frequently at the annual Colorado Mahlerfest, prestigious universities, and
other venues. He also wrote record and concert reviews for the American Record
Guide. Without doubt, Jerry's greatest passion was for his family. He is
survived by his beloved wife, Florence, to whom he was married for 62 years;
three daughters, Rena Klosk of Franklin Lakes, NJ, Dr. Janis Fox of Brookline,
MA, and Shari Tsivya Fox of Beit Shemesh, Israel; sister, Blossom Fox of NYC;
and nine grandchildren. He was also deeply loved by his sons-in-law, Steven
Klosk and Richard Corn. His family was the light of his long, rich, and
wonderful life, and he considered himself the luckiest man in the world. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); GRANDPARENTS
(90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ENGINEERING
(76%); US NAVY (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); NAVIES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES
(71%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (71%); MUSIC REVIEWS (67%)

COMPANY: GRUMMAN AEROSPACE CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (71%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BACKER, HENRIETTA L

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 144 words


BACKER--Henrietta L. Born September 25, 1924. Died August 24, 2015. Married for
56 years to the late Bernard Backer, with whom she shared a lifetime of
commitment to social and economic justice. As an educator she touched the lives
of generations of first-graders, teaching them how to learn and always enjoying
the miracle that happens when a child becomes literate. Lifelong member of the
Workmen's Circle; a founding member of the Democratic Socialists of America, and
a member of the Princeton Housing Commission. Mother of Jo Backer Laird, Richard
Backer, and the late Louise Uphoff; grandmother of six; and great-grandmother of
six, all of whom loved and cherished her beyond words. In lieu of flowers,
please send donations to the presidential campaign of Bernie Sanders. There will
be no memorial service. The family will be sitting Shiva through Sunday. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (65%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS OF AMERICA (57%); WORKMEN'S CIRCLE (57%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Grand Tour of a Great Lake

BYLINE: By RICH COHEN.

Rich Cohen is the author of ''Monsters: The 1985 Chicago Bears and the Wild
Heart of Football.''

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4057 words


We left to the south and returned from the north. In doing so, we fulfilled the
grandest dream of Magellan, the dream of circumnavigation. Our compass was GPS
and our logic was simple. If we kept the lake always on our left and traveled
continuously, we would eventually reach the place from which we started --
Chicago, with its seismic chart of skyscrapers, protracted sunsets and
canyon-like streets, closing the circle by visiting every beach and port on the
greatest lake of all, Michigan.

I grew up in Glencoe, Ill., about a mile from the shore. To me, the lake was as
mysterious as a biblical abyss. Had you asked, when I was 10, what was on the
other side, I would have said Paris, or possibly China. When I was 12, my dream
was to lace up my Bauer Supremes some winter day and skate clear to the distant
shore.

Only later, when I learned that such an expedition would almost surely end in an
excruciating death, was that dream supplanted by the more sensible notion of
going all the way around and seeing from every side the great body of water that
dominates the life of those who live within rock-skipping distance.

For a long time, I forgot such fantasies, moved East and sought relief from the
brutal summers and succession of days on the Atlantic, as guilt-ridden by the
solace of sea spray and breaking waves as a cheating husband. When I told the
woman who was to become my wife that I, too, grew up on the beach, she laughed:
''Lake Michigan? That's not the beach!'' I burned with fury but said nothing.

Only in the last few years, as I've come to realize my children are growing up
as Easterners, woefully unaware of the geography and vastness of our inland
seas, has the old dream returned. Thus, nearing 47, with my children, three boys
spread across the early and middle grades -- I'd give their ages, but, like the
odometer in my car, they keep changing -- I knew I had to return to the place
where I started. When friends asked where I was going, I said simply, ''I'm
going all the way around.''

The City

Chicago is the capital of Lake Michigan. As Naples sits above stony
Mediterranean beaches, Chicago commands the southwestern shores of the big
water. It began as a point of transit, a passage from the lake to the big river
farther west, the Mississippi, which French explorers believed emptied into the
Sea of Japan. In this way, Chicago, which was a wigwam village and became a fort
and then a boomtown, was once seen as a kind of Pacific port, our first
California.

We stayed at the Drake, an old hotel set in the S-curve of Lake Shore Drive that
commands the best views of the shore. Every window in our corner room was like a
highball glass filled to the brim. The lake is bluer than the ocean. That
surprises visitors -- that particular shade, like the blue of airmail envelopes,
as well as the sea gulls, ships and churning tides. A trip around the lake
should begin here, in its great city, which uses the lake as a buffer and a
frame.

Like any great port, it faces the sea. To understand it, you therefore have to
go to the beach, and Chicago has Oak Street Beach, the best urban beach in the
world. It sits at the edge of the cityscape, jutting like a flash of tongue, a
soft place amid all that concrete and steel. The sand itself is as crowded as
the sand in a Gidget movie. There's a changing house where a lifeguard dozes,
probably sleeping off a spree, and, out on the lake, rafts and buoys and a
pumping station that delivers drinking water to the area.

To really know the lake, though, you've got to get in it over your head. You
enter across a bed of sharp rocks -- an imperfection that illuminates the
perfection of the whole. The water is very clear and very cold. As you go under,
the air leaves your body. Unless it's August or September, when the water
temperature climbs into the low 80s, your skin takes on a bluish tint. You swim
out, not as buoyant as in a salt sea, but energized.

In America, we call it fresh water. Elsewhere, it's sweet-water, which seems
more accurate. Fifty yards out, you turn and look back. The city looms like a
thunderhead. The Hancock building stands above the rest, a massive obelisk
crossed by huge supports. It was the world's sixth tallest when I was a child,
but now, mostly because of Abu Dhabi's busy hands, is out of the top 20.

The Hancock's observation deck is where you go for the wide angle. The western
windows show why Chicago was the birth place of the skyscraper. The grassland
prairie is so punishingly flat, with roads going on forever, it makes sense that
the people in town would build their own heights, mountains, overlooks. From the
northern windows, you see the shore and the village where I grew up, as well as
Wrigley Field and the Baha'i Temple in Wilmette. In the south, you see
factories, smoke stacks, haze. But the big picture is east. It's water. And
water and water and water. You strain to see the other side but never will. It's
75 miles across from Chicago to Michigan, and close to a thousand miles around.

South Shore

There is a designated route called the Circle Tour. Now and then, you see a sign
that says you are on it. But, in the way of the early French explorers Marquette
and Joliet, we preferred to cut our own path and headed out early one morning,
windows open, Little Walter on the radio, ''Boom, Boom, Out Go the Lights.'' We
drove in and out of buildings, over the river, emerging onto Lake Shore Drive,
which we followed south. I-55 to I-90 East.

Beyond the last tall building, the country turns gray, oily. Tough little
neighborhoods, the streets lined with bungalows and two-family houses, front
porches, steel awnings. The Chicago vocational school, where Dick Butkus and
Juwan Howard played high school ball.

As you reach the southern side of the lake -- the deep end of the teardrop --
and turn east, you enter a land of ash and coal, grain elevators, chimneys that
burp up showers of sparks or just spew. At the end of every sad street, a
playground and a factory, the engine of the city, nether regions and pump room.
Factories line the lake shore, sucking up and polluting its water. The
freighters come and go, the machines, trucks. This landscape scared me when I
was a child.

The south shore has been tidied up, but before the Clean Air Act it was almost
unbearable, an apocalyptic landscape dwelled on by chroniclers of the city,
Bellow and Roth, because here you had the flip side of the dream. North Side and
South Side. Skyscraper and grain elevator. Lake shore and slaughterhouse.
Wrigley Field and Comiskey Park. Chicago is multifaceted, made up of innumerable
stories and populations, but it really has just two sides -- front and back.

The land opens up beyond Michigan City, Ind.; the sky turns blue. There is still
evidence of the machine -- flatbeds hauling cable, billboards posing a
persistent question, ''Been in a wreck?'' -- but there is a softness in the air,
a suggestion of beach.

We reached Benton Harbor in the afternoon, the road making a somewhat depressing
entry into what had been a smart town. The Victorian houses that line the
avenues have been allowed to dilapidate. Ivy crawls over the columns, broken
windows glitter. The town seems half artists' colony, half ruin, the stores
along main street boarded, empty. We stopped at a restaurant called the Mason
Jar Cafe, a homey place with stuffed French toast and the best lemonade, then
continued across the St. Joseph River to Benton Harbor's ''twin city,'' St.
Joseph.

If St. Joe and Benton Harbor are twins, it's of the fraternal variety. Just like
that, you go from blight into a perfect beach town of cobblestone streets, candy
stores and what my mother would recognize as tchotchke shops. This divide (the
only thing separating the municipalities is a small river and a police force)
mirrors the divide in the region as a whole, the line that runs across the
industrial Midwest. According to recent data from the United States Census
Bureau, the median household income in Benton Harbor, which is close to 90
percent black, was just over $18,000. The median household income in St. Joseph,
which is nearly 90 percent white, was over $50,000.

St. Joseph was founded in the 19th century as a port on the way to Chicago and
the Gulf of Mexico, as well as a vacation land for fat cats from across the
lake. Early last century, it boasted a Coney Island-like fantasyland that
figured in millions of summer dreams. (''I stuck around the amusement park at
Silver Beach, where the cars of the Ferris wheel were covered, getting
blackened, and I got soaked through my rain coat,'' Saul Bellow writes in ''The
Adventures of Augie March.'')

The park closed nearly 50 years ago, but the beach is still there, the
concession stands, fountains and waterfront, which presented my first
opportunity to stare across the water to where I knew Chicago had to be.

The beaches on this side are broader, without the band of rocks that punish
Illinois bathers. We have stony prairie; they have westerly breezes and towering
dunes, huge undulations that begin in Indiana and continue all the way north.
They're a relic of an age when the lakes were bigger. In the dunes, you're
walking on what had been sea floor, and the world here feels beautiful and new.

Ludington

The shores of the lakes were charted by French missionaries in the 17th century.
These were the first Europeans to see the region and most were priests,
traveling by canoe. In school they told us how these men entered the wilderness
with little more than the Bible, how they built missions and towns. We did not
memorize their names, but could recognize them if the exam was multiple choice:
LaSalle, Nicolet, Joliet.

Jacques Marquette was my favorite. Born in Laon, France, in 1637, he was a
Jesuit by 20 and was explaining the Trinity in the New World by 30. He mapped
the frontier in a series of expeditions that stand as the greatest road trip in
American history -- before Jim and Huck on the raft, before Dean and Sal in the
Hudson, before my family and me in the rented Ford Explorer, Marquette and
Joliet were setting out from St. Ignace (now part of Michigan) in canoes.

Following the coast of the lake, they reached Green Bay, then continued, via a
network of small rivers, to the Mississippi, which they traveled not quite to
the Gulf of Mexico. In the end, they covered close to a thousand miles.
Marquette got dysentery on this trip, and never really recovered. His ensuing
days were filled with sojourns in which he held up, waiting out a bad spell. One
of these was spent near the site of modern Chicago and another on the eastern
shore of the lake, a mile from a beach in what is now Ludington, Mich., where he
died at age 37.

There is a marker and a cross on what had been his grave (the bones were later
dug up and reburied in St. Ignace). But the real evidence of the early explorers
lies in the names of the rivers and towns, French names that give everything a
creepy depth, reminding you that our world was built on top of another world,
which was built on top of still others.

Ludington was founded in 1845 as a center for trappers and fishermen. It boomed
in the 1880s on the lake trade and remains a home of one of the only regular
cross-lake ferry. Like so many waterfront towns, it was devastated by the rise
of the railroads and devastated again by the waning of the lumber industry. What
remains is the architecture of what had been a bigger town, elegant storefronts
filled with dead-end concerns -- dollar store, consignment shop, tattoo parlor
-- and rundown mansions where, once upon a time, the debutantes drank gin on
back porches watching the ships.

We rolled into town in the early evening. In June and July, the Michigan days
are nearly arctic in length. At 10 p.m., it was still light enough to read a
newspaper outside. We ate at the Old Hamlin House. It was like a meal in a
mother's dream of the past, turkey dinners with a thousand sides, every food
group represented, the regulars talking high school football. My son was wearing
a Bears jersey, Brian Urlacher's number 54, and two octogenarians approached,
giggling: ''Don't ya think the fellah's a little small to play linebacker?'' In
these sunstruck ports, it's still the old America, the place of my childhood,
peopled by old folks, as friendly as can be as their generation fades away.

We checked into Snyder's Shoreline Inn, a two-story motel across the road from
the lake. Everything I left in the 1970s was there waiting for me: the tiny bars
of soap, the clunky room keys, the sand in the bed and the smell of candles and
mildew.

Before bed, we went to the beach. It's broad here, with dramatic dunes. There is
a harbor and a jetty with a beautiful lighthouse at the end, as there are
lighthouses up and down the coast. You can walk the jetty and look back at the
yellow lights of Ludington as night comes on. A ship sails away from the harbor,
the water red in the evening sun. For me, it was unaccountably strange --
watching the sun go down on Lake Michigan. This was my personal Atlantic, and it
had always been a place of sunrises and dawns -- never sunsets. It was as if I
had finally reached Saint-Exupéry's France, land of the setting sun, birthplace
of the world.

We stopped at Traverse City the next afternoon, cherry capital of the world. The
road was lined with orchards, the branches so heavy with ripe fruit they bent to
the ground. The pavement skirted Grand Traverse Bay, coves and islands appearing
and disappearing between houses and trees.

This has to be among the most beautiful drives in the country, each turn
affording a new view of the lake, which stands for all those lakes prized by
Midwesterners but unknown to so many others who rush off to foreign oceans that
pale in comparison to our strange inland seas.

An hour or so up the road, we rolled into the outskirts of Petoskey, Hemingway
Country. The writer loved resorts. If he wrote about a place, you know it was
one of the ''in'' places of the moment. In the 1920s, it was Paris. In the
1930s, it was Key West. In his early years, it was this lakefront vacation town.
His family had a house nearby, on Walloon Lake. Hemlock forests and streams,
lumber mills, swamps -- boyhood adventure condensed to a perfume.

I can't help but see it through the eyes of Nick Adams, the alter-ego who
wandered those dazzling early stories: ''Up in Michigan,'' ''The Three Day
Blow,'' ''Big Two-Hearted River.'' When Hemingway first published nearly 90
years ago, the town was scandalized. He'd written real gossip about real people.
He was persona non grata. Now, of course, all is forgiven.

The Enchanted Isle

I am tormented by detached memories. These are like photos that have fallen from
an album and lie at the bottom of a drawer. In one, I am staring at rows of
fudge in some sort of diner and it's raining outside. In another, I am on a hill
looking down at a bay filled with red sails. These memories have long puzzled
me: Are they from another life? After a few hours on Mackinac Island, which sits
in a strait that leads from Lake Huron to Lake Michigan, topping Michigan proper
like the dot on the Spanish exclamation point, I realized that all those
unmoored memories were in fact collected on some ancient family trip to
Mackinac, when my parents were young.

Mackinaw City, where you hop a ferry across, is a child's idea of a honky-tonk
town, its big commercial street filled with banners, crowds and every variety of
candy and novelty shop, each a kind of hook meant to catch and haul in the
suckers, pulling their money-soaked parents after them. At times, in such a
town, you feel like a capo on the corner of Mulberry Street, snapping singles
off a thick roll.

We left our car in long-term parking, checked bags and climbed aboard a boat,
where we had the upper deck to ourselves. We picked up speed in the straits. A
storm was moving across the water. Through the rain we could see Mackinac
glistening in the distance. It's always been considered sacred, especially to
the Ojibwa, its early inhabitants who believed it the resting place of the great
spirit and the first land to appear after the great flood. To Europeans, it
registered as a dream. A New World, a virgin continent. And, in that new world,
a great sweet-water sea. And, at a focal point in that sea, a lush island.

There is a town, stores and restaurants and inns, but most famous is the Grand
Hotel, the sort of mansard-roof affair where, eons ago, a president spent an
eventless August. There are no cars on Mackinac, and the first thing you notice
is the smell of manure. It's all-encompassing. Everywhere. All the time.
Sometimes stronger, sometimes weaker, but never gone. You move through zones:
fudge then manure, fudge then manure.

We stayed at the Chippewa Inn. From the balcony, you could look across to the
mainland, or through the straits to open water. In the morning, we rented bikes
and set off on the eight-mile path that follows the shore. In other words, we
were circumnavigating within our greater circumnavigation. Outside town, fresh
air comes from the east and rock ledges and cliffs loom. In the middle of the
ride, you can park your bike and stand on a beach and look at the place where
Lake Huron bumps into and mingles with Lake Michigan. But what's clear on a map
is just a subtle change in mood under the open sky.

The Crossing

In the morning, instead of continuing through the Upper Peninsula, as planned,
we went south. This meant giving up the dream of complete circumnavigation, but
it suddenly seemed more important to see the water from the water, to get inside
the frame. And so we returned to Ludington to board the S.S. Badger, last of the
steam ferries. We would close the circle by sea, which seemed appropriate.

I have an old book about Lake Michigan. I bought it on Mackinac. It was
published in 1944, a moment of crisis, the sort of moment when citizens crave an
accounting of national wonders. The frontispiece shows a map -- decorated by
sketches of Indians, settlers, teepees, cabins, headdresses, canoes -- of ferry
routes that once crossed the lake. Chicago to Benton Harbor. Milwaukee to
Muskegon, Mich. Kewaunee, Wis., to Frankfort, Mich.

The Ludington service is all that remains of this once-robust web of commercial
and pedestrian steamers. An adult ticket costs $66, not including the price of a
car, carried in the belly of the ship. For an additional $49, we got a state
room, where you can sit at the little desk and work on a novel about the sea, or
crash on the crib-like mattress, lulled by the hypnotic slosh of sweet water.
There's a movie theater, a gift shop, an arcade, a cafeteria and a social hall
where a carnival barker type ran bingo and trivia contests, but I spent most of
my time on the rail, staring at the water.

There is a comforting sameness at the center of the lake, a blue vastness,
swells and mirage. Its floor and the surrounding land began to form began to
form about 15,000 years ago, stemming from glacial activity. It's terrifyingly
deep as a result, dropping to almost a thousand feet at Green Bay. At its
biggest, it's 118 miles across and 307 miles from top to bottom. No one's ever
swum its broadest portion, though now and then a nut canoes it.

The lake can be a special challenge to navigators. There are sudden shallows and
terrific storms that cannot be outrun because, unlike the ocean, the lake is not
infinite. There are tight places where the wind and the rain can drive even the
most experienced captain to ruin. The lake floor is littered with famous wrecks
like the Lady Elgin, which sank on the morning of Sept. 8, 1860, taking nearly
300 people down with it. Some of the remains were discovered off Highwood, Ill.,
in 1989, under 60 feet of water.

The S.S. Badger completes a crossing in just over four hours. It lands at
Manitowoc, an industrial Wisconsin port of factories and breweries. You see
smokestacks before you see land, the harbor, piers and bays. The town was
visited by world historical events on Sept. 5, 1962, when a chunk of the Soviet
satellite Sputnik 4 landed on North Eighth Street. The occasion is marked each
year by Sputnik Fest.

Going Home

I knew I was home as soon as I was on the highway. The lake was back where it
belonged, in the east, those pancake-flat Wisconsin farms were in the windows,
red silos punctuating seas of corn. (Without Chicago, Illinois would be Iowa --
that's what they said when I was a child.) We stopped in Milwaukee, stayed at
the Pfister Hotel, an ornate landmark of the Gilded Age where the bellhops crack
wise, visited the art museum, the beautiful lakefront one designed by Calatrava,
walked along the shore and ate frozen custard at the stand on North Point beach.

In the morning, we continued on, making our way to Chicago from the north. We
took lake roads and made frequent stops. About 20 miles from the city, as the
Willis and Hancock were just coming into view, we stopped at Glencoe, my
hometown. It's changed. The people are richer, even the upper middle class is
gone. Like parts of Manhattan, it can seem like just billionaires and
billionaire-helpers. The stores were empty at midday. There was a summer
deadness.

I looked for my old friends, but they were gone too, priced-out failures like
me, every one of them. I looked for my favorite haunts. Ray's Sport Shop. Wally
King's Record Store. Ricky's Delicatessen. Gone. Gone. Gone. Object
impermanence, the flow of time. Everything you see will be replaced. I felt like
a ghost, a stranger visiting my old life.

But then I went down to the beach. Over the barricade, along the ravine road,
past the house where Big Al used to sell hot dogs. And there it was, the lake.
Thank God, it was still the same.

If You Go

CHICAGO

WHERE TO STAY

The Drake Hotel, 140 East Walton Place. thedrakehotel.com.

WHERE TO EAT

The Signature Room at the 95th. High-end cuisine on a very high floor in the
John Hancock Center. 875 North Michigan Avenue. signatureroom.com

The Billy Goat Inn, for cheeseburgers. 1535 West Madison Street.
billygoattavern.com

Lou Malnati's Pizza, for deep-dish pies. 1120 North State Street.
loumalnatis.com

WHAT TO SEE

Oak Street Beach, 1001 North Lake Shore Drive.
chicagoparkdistrict.com/parks/oak-steet-beach

INDIANA

WHAT TO SEE

Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, 1215 North State Road 49, Porter. nps.gov/indu

SOUTHERN MICHIGAN

WHERE TO EAT

In Benton Harbor, the Mason Jar Cafe, 210 Water Street.

In St. Joseph, Kilwins, for candy and ice cream. 217 State Street.
kilwins.com/stjoseph

WHAT TO SEE

Silver Beach County Park, 101 Broad Street, St. Joseph. berriencounty.org/parks

LUDINGTON, MICH.

WHERE TO EAT

The Old Hamlin Restaurant, 122 West Ludington Avenue. oldhamlin.com

WHAT TO DO

Christofferson Farms, for picking fruit in the summer and fall. 3441 South
Morton Road; 231-845-5831

Ludington State Park, 800 M-116. visitludington.com/statepark

TRAVERSE CITY, MICH.

WHERE TO EAT

Mackinaw Brewing Company, 161 East Front Street. mackinawbrewing.com

Scalawags Whitefish & Chips, 303 East State Street. scalawagstc.com

BOYNE CITY, Mich.

WHERE TO EAT

Horton Bay General Store; breakfast, lunch and a soda fountain in a Hemingway
hangout. 05115 Boyne City-Charlevoix Road. hortonbaygeneralstore.com

Red Fox Inn, a Hemingway-focused bookstore next door. 05156 Boyne
City-Charlevoix Road.

PETOSKEY, MICH.

WHAT TO EAT

Murdick's Fudge, 311 Howard Street. petoskeymurdicks.com

MACKINAC ISLAND, MICH.

WHAT TO DO

Fort Mackinac, 7127 Huron Road.
mackinacparks.com/parks-and-attractions/fort-mackinac

WHERE TO EAT

Lucky Bean Coffeehouse, 7383 Market Street. facebook.com/luckybeancoffee

MILWAUKEE

WHERE TO STAY

The Pfister Hotel, 424 East Wisconsin Avenue. thepfisterhotel.com

WHERE TO EAT

Northpoint Custard, 2272 North Lincoln Memorial Drive. northpointcustard.com

WHAT TO SEE

Milwaukee Art Museum, 700 North Art Museum Drive. mam.org

SUBURBAN CHICAGO

WHERE TO EAT

In Glencoe, Ill., Guildhall has excellent food. 694 Vernon Avenue.
guildhallrestaurant.com

In Wilmette, Walker Bros. Original Pancake House is known for its apple cinnamon
and German pancakes. 153 Green Bay Road. walkerbros.net

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/lake-michigan-tour.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SAND AND STEEL: A view of Chicago from Lake Michigan and, on
the Michigan shore, sand dunes at Silver Lake State Park. (TR1)
BY THE SEA: Above, Silver Beach in St. Joseph, Mich., once a vacation spot for
wealthy Chicagoans. Opposite page, bottom, a lifeboat on the S.S. Badger, which
crossed the lake from Ludington, Mich., to Manitowoc, Wis.
snacks at the beach in St. Joseph. (TR6)
MANY FACES: Clockwise from top left, sand dunes at Silver Lake State Park in
Michigan
the deep blue waters of the lake which, at its biggest point, is about 118 miles
across and 307 miles from top to bottom
the harbor at Ludington, Mich.
Horton Bay General Store near Michigan's Hemingway Country
Silver Lake State Park
cornfields and a farm along Route 94 in Wisconsin
guarding Bradford Beach in Milwaukee
the yard of a home on the lake in Petoskey, Mich.
 homemade lemonade at the Mason Jar Cafe in Benton Harbor, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
ROBERT RAUSCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR6-TR7) MAP (TR6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (90%); BEACHES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); ILLINOIS,
USA (91%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Graveyard Buries Champion's Streak

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words


SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y. -- They were fully aware of this historic racetrack's
reputation for felling iconic horses like Gallant Fox and Affirmed, as well as
immortal ones, like the great Secretariat. They also knew of its charms, how
racehorses are not only loved here but revered and how the people who follow
them believe this is truly Valhalla.

American Pharoah's trainer, Bob Baffert, and his rider, Victor Espinoza, also
believed they had a special -- maybe even an immortal -- one of their own when
they met in the paddock Saturday in the moments before the 146th running of the
Travers Stakes. If ever a horse existed that could dance atop the Graveyard of
Champions, the big bay colt in front of them was the one.

They understood that they were asking a lot of their Triple Crown champion, only
the 12th in history and the first in 37 years. In winning eight straight races
over the last year, American Pharoah had traveled 18,750 miles to run on seven
racetracks. Twenty-seven days before Saturday's race, he had easily won at
Monmouth Park in New Jersey and then flown back to California, only to return
east to Saratoga Race Course on Wednesday.

But American Pharoah looked even fitter than he did on the first Saturday in May
at Churchill Downs, where he won the Kentucky Derby and launched his successful
bid to capture horse racing's holy grail. Besides, the colt had already beaten
six of the rivals lined up alongside him in the starting gate.

So when the gates opened to the roar of more than 50,000 people here on Saturday
and Espinoza throttled American Pharoah past the old wooden clubhouse a
comfortable length ahead of the field, there appeared no reason to suspect that
the Spa, as the track is known, was going to add another monumental heartbreak
to its résumé.

Nope, Espinoza glided American Pharoah around the clubhouse turn and settled in
for an unhurried run down the backstretch and eventually to the finish line
ahead of everyone else in horse racing's Midsummer Derby. But a funny thing
happened on the way to the winner's circle. In fact, a couple of odd things.

First, the rider of Frosted, Jose Lezcano, decided to make American Pharoah run
hard every step of the way. He put his gray colt right on Espinoza and stayed on
Pharoah's flank like a nightclub bouncer hustling an unruly patron out the door.

''The jockey was on top of me,'' Espinoza said, ''and we were bumping.''

Not only was this a change of tactics from Frosted, who had heretofore mounted
late runs to finish fourth to American Pharoah in the Derby and second in the
Belmont Stakes, but Lezcano had never been on the colt before Saturday. He
inherited the mount on Frosted a little more than an hour before the race, and
only because the colt's regular rider, Joel Rosario, fell off a horse earlier in
the card and was taken to Albany Medical Center with lower back pain.

Behind them, Javier Castellano was riding Keen Ice, another late runner, for the
first time. Dale Romans, the colt's trainer, had instructed him to change
tactics as well. His colt had finished third in the Belmont Stakes and was the
runner-up to American Pharoah this month at the Haskell Invitational at
Monmouth.

''Let's put him in the race,'' Romans told Castellano before giving him a leg
up.

At the half-mile pole, Espinoza knew he was in trouble. He asked American
Pharoah for some oomph, but horse and rider could not separate from Frosted.

''His energy was not the same as it was before -- it was not what I'm used to,''
Espinoza said.

Worse, Lezcano and Frosted banged into American Pharoah with enough force to
knock him off stride, then continued to bounce the Triple Crown champion a
half-dozen times as if they were riding bumper cars as they dueled into the far
turn.

In the clubhouse, Baffert saw Espinoza struggling and American Pharoah
sputtering and got worried. This was not his colt's A game on display. ''He
didn't have the power he usually has,'' Baffert said. ''His tank wasn't as full
as we hoped.''

As they turned for home, Lezcano lifted Frosted past American Pharoah, and horse
and rider looked intent on turning the tables on their nemesis. But American
Pharoah refused to lose -- he vaulted a half-length ahead as they neared the
eighth pole to the full-throated roar of a crowd that sensed an upset had been
thwarted.

''It was just guts,'' Baffert said of his colt.

Closing fast, however, were Castellano and Keen Ice. Castellano knew Frosted had
softened American Pharoah up. But how much?

''When I got closer to him, and I didn't see him take off, I knew I had a
chance,'' Castellano said.

Keen Ice kept coming. He put a nose, a neck and finally three-quarters of his
body ahead of American Pharoah at the wire.

The final chart shows that Keen Ice covered the mile and quarter route in 2
minutes 1.57 seconds, or fast enough to earn his owners, Donegal Racing, an
$850,000 first-place check. His backers scored, too, getting back $34 for a $2
bet.

The history books, however, will tell an altogether different but epic tale
about how a hallowed racetrack saw a brave performance from another Triple Crown
horse but rewarded a winning one by Keen Ice. Everyone in American Pharoah's
camp was gracious in congratulating the winners. They made no excuses. Still,
they were stunned.

''I'm not used to being in this position with him,'' Baffert said of American
Pharoah, who did everything but win. ''It's hard to digest right now.''

When he does, Baffert perhaps will realize the only thing American Pharoah lost
here on Saturday was a horse race.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/keen-ice-defeats-american-pharoah-at-tr
avers-stakes.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Keen Ice (7), ridden by Javier Castellano, blazing past the
Triple Crown winner American Pharoah and Victor Espinoza to win the Travers
Stakes at Saratoga Race Course. (SP1)
 American Pharoah, center, leading the field into the first turn. He had won
eight straight races. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HANS PENNINK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (SP5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%);
HORSES (90%); NIGHTCLUBS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giving Local Fare a Chance to Shine

BYLINE: By ROBYN ECKHARDT

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CHOICE TABLES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1876 words


On my first visit to Siem Reap a dozen years ago, I ate pizza, bibimbap and
chocolate croissants. What I didn't eat much of was Cambodian food. As the
jumping off point for Angkor Wat, Siem Reap (pronounced SEE-ehm REE-uhp) has
long catered to international appetites. Yet it's only relatively recently that
visitors keen to explore local dishes have been able to do so beyond street
stalls and mediocre buffets.

''Real Cambodian cuisine is something that most average tourists, who see the
same five dishes again and again, rarely experience,'' said Joannès Rivière, a
French chef who, with his partner, Carole Salmon, opened Cuisine Wat Damnak,
serving modern Cambodian food, in 2011.

Back then Mr. Rivière was the only chef in town using local ingredients to
prepare dishes undiluted for foreign palates. Now, thanks to a growing number of
restaurants opened by ethnically Khmer (as opposed to Vietnamese-Cambodian or
Chinese-Cambodian) chefs and restaurateurs, that's changed.

Cambodian food is ''first and foremost a cuisine of place,'' Mr. Rivière said,
rooted in indigenous ingredients: pond frogs and fish from Tonle Sap, the
freshwater lake not far from the city; rhizomes and herbs like galangal,
turmeric, lemongrass and basil; palm sugar; coconut milk; prahok (salted
fermented fish that is boiled to make a sort of stock or chopped fine); and a
range of seasonal farmed and foraged fruits and vegetables, like young green
jackfruit and wild mango kernels.

Spice pastes called kroeung are building blocks for many dishes. Basic
preparations include khaw, in which caramelized palm sugar coats meat or
seafood; soups called samlor (sweet or sour, made with prahok and sometimes
coconut milk) and sgnaow (light broths flavored with prahok or fish sauce); and
dips featuring prahok, eaten with fresh and blanched vegetables.

The following four restaurants range in ambience from basic to fancy. Some offer
faithful renditions of Cambodian classics while others serve contemporary
interpretations of them. Taken together, they offer a deep dive into one of
Southeast Asia's lesser-known cuisines, one that is all too often unfairly
reduced to comparisons with those of its neighbors.

Chanrea Dom Makara

The fan-cooled dining room could do with a lick of paint, tables are clad in
vinyl, paper napkins litter the floor and the kitchen wears a veneer of grease.
Orders are served on plastic tableware and plunked unceremoniously in front of
diners. Consider it all a blessing: at 10-year-old Chanrea Dom Makara there is
no flash to distract from the delights on your plate.

Chanrea's inexpensive offerings may be everyday fare for the average Cambodian,
but there's a deft hand in the kitchen. Grab a seat, order some ice-cold coconut
water (served in an actual coconut) and mine the menu by flipping past the pages
of Chinese-style stir-fries to the Cambodian section. Start, perhaps, with
prahok ktis (''Cambodian cheese,'' the menu says), an addictive dip that
balances prahok's sometimes off-putting pungency with fatty minced pork and
spicy kroeung. Tiny pea eggplants burst between the teeth, providing a jolt of
bitterness to awaken a palate lulled by coconut cream.

Green mango and smoked fish salad is a common dish in Siem Reap, but in
Chanrea's version the fish almost disintegrates into the dressing of lime juice
and fish sauce, giving the salad a texture akin to that of a creamy-crunchy
slaw.

If Cambodia has a famous dish it's probably amok, which usually takes the form
of a blandish coconut-curry steamed custard similar to Thailand's hawmawk.
Chanrea's version mingles rafts of fish or chicken with brilliant green neu
leaves from an evergreen shrub whose fruit is juiced as a health tonic. Their
sweet-bitter flavor and collard-greens-like heft hold their own in the spicy
turmeric-forward coconut sauce. (''If there's no neu it's not amok,'' Mr.
Rivière told me.)

The menu includes a list of samlor, those prahok-based soups. Some are light,
clear and sweet, some sharpened with green tomatoes or lime leaves and redolent
of galangal and Thai basil, others thickened with coconut milk and flavored with
kroeung. ''Dried fish with watermelon'' is just that. Like the restaurant, the
dish has no frills -- simply alternating bites of sweet, juicy fruit and salty,
chewy umami bombs.

Sivutha Boulevard (close to Kentucky Fried Chicken); no phone. An average meal
for two, without drinks or tip, is about $18. (Dollars are preferred almost
everywhere in Siem Reap.)

Rohatt Cafe

When Phyreak Hang and his partners were developing the menu for Rohatt, he
sought help from relatives in Siem Reap.

''We wanted to make the food as authentic as possible, even if foreigners
wouldn't eat it,'' said Mr. Hang, a Phnom Penh architect who designed his
two-year-old timber restaurant to resemble a Khmer-style home.

Rohatt's look sends up made-for-tourists red flags: spacious, tastefully
furnished dining rooms; tree-shaded balconies overlooking the river; a bakery
counter displaying muffins and croissants; dishes served on hand-thrown
crockery. But what's on those plates is faithful to the real thing.

That's reflected in a clientele that includes plenty of locals and in a menu
that lists what might be seen as ''challenging'' fare, like pan-fried duck eggs
with prama (long-fermented fish) alongside others meant to appease unseasoned
foreign palates (fresh spring rolls, chicken with cashew nuts). The former
turned out to be unthreatening triangles of firm omelet surrounded by
crinkle-cut carrot and eggplant slices and fresh ginger coins, studded with
tender bits of prama that give more flavor than pure stink.

The prahok kroeung is perhaps more approachable, a mélange of nubbly minced pork
and exceptionally rich coconut cream with the addictive texture of a fine,
long-cooked ragú Bolognese. Served with a plate of raw vegetables, it invites
eating with a spoon instead. In Cambodia, vegetable scraps become kokor, a
coconut milk stew seasoned with prahok, toasted rice powder and black pepper.
Rohatt's lush camouflage-green version includes green beans, water spinach and
winter squash cooked until it melts into the coconut milk.

I left Siem Reap wishing I could swing back to Rohatt for a breakfast of numban
chok, fermented rice vermicelli doused with a choice of curries and served with
whatever foraged leafy greens and herbs are in season.

King's Road Angkor Shopping Center, Achar Sva Road-Siem Reap River;
855-11-676-734; rohattcafe.com. An average meal for two, without drinks or tip,
is about $24.

Khmer Touch Cuisine

Khmer Touch Cuisine sits opposite the Angkor Night Market; when the band takes
the stage each night, floors shake and conversation is all but impossible. So go
for lunch, when you can sit on the open-air ground floor, which smells
appetizingly of wet herbs, lemongrass, shallots and kroeung.

Somontha Oeng, who worked her way up from dining room steward to sous chef at
the luxury Amansara resort before opening Khmer Touch Cuisine last October, has
peppered her menu with what she describes as refined versions of Cambodian
street foods, which I found to be the menu's highlights.

Ms. Oeng turns ombok, flattened toasted rice flakes usually mixed with ice and
sugar syrup as a treat for children, into an amuse-bouche by roasting it in a
dry pan with garlic, slivered wild lime leaf and spring onion leaves. The rice
cake with coconut sauce consists of golden orbs of crispy batter enclosing rich
coconut cream that walk an intriguing line between sweet and savory.

Her lotus salad is stunning: stem, root, seeds and blush pink petals (the
traditional version uses only the stem) with chicken and basil in a lightly
sweet dressing balanced by the kicky pepper-astringency of the flower. The
classic street grill of skewered beef marinated in kroeung could do with a lick
more fire and a lot more of the green papaya pickle, which is wonderfully fiery,
sweet-sour and crunchy.

The limited dessert selection includes a star: melting slices of banana gloved
in light, velvety, perfectly grease-free batter and served with two scoops of
smoky, butterscotch-reminiscent palm sugar ice cream.

Old Market Area, Sivutha Boulevard (Opposite Triangle Bar); 855-63-76-56-89;
khmertouchcuisine.com. An average meal for two, without drinks or tip, is about
$45.

Mie Cafe

Set in a traditional wooden house in a residential neighborhood 10 minutes from
the center of town, Mie Cafe glows sofly at night, a beacon to food lovers
seeking an escape from touristy Pub Street. A short path from the road cuts
through the kitchen garden where the chef, Pola Siv, cultivates chiles, a few
other vegetables and the herbs and blossoms he uses to garnish dishes and
prepare infusions inspired by Cambodian herbal medicine. Tables in the open-air
ground-floor dining area have a view of the glassed-in kitchen; upstairs,
there's air-conditioning, lower lights and a bit more privacy.

With a long à la carte section and two special menus that change daily, Mie
covers a lot of ground -- much like the chef himself. After washing dishes for
several years, Mr. Siv moved first to Bahrain and then to the Cayman Islands,
working as a waiter.

''I love to cook because of my mother,'' he said, but meeting Anthony Bourdain
and Eric Ripert in the Caymans ''inspired me to be a chef.''

After graduating from a Swiss cooking academy, Mr. Siv worked at the
Michelin-starred Domaine de Châteauvieux in Satigny before returning to Siem
Reap in late 2012. He opened Mie Cafe as a noodle joint a few months later, then
transitioned the restaurant to fine dining after he had saved enough money for
renovations and kitchen equipment.

Some dishes, like the gorgeous beef laab, are joyfully extravagant inversions of
Cambodian classics. Mr. Siv reinvents the raw meat salad as a disc of beef
tartare crowned with a luxuriant lawn of sea-salty wakame, delicate young herbs
and violet pea flowers. Other plates, like the pan-fried chhlang fish crusted
with sour fermented krill and garnished with astringent slivers of green
tamarind, are straightforward expressions of the chef's ability to combine local
ingredients (he works with organic growers and local foragers) with European
technique and plating.

Still others feel like an attempt to appeal to less adventurous diners -- the
glazed barbecue pork ribs (sticky and delicious, if a bit tough) with French
fries, for example, or the avocado rolls with Mekong langoustine: California
rolls without the rice and nori.

The daily Surprise Menu showcases Mr. Siv's enthusiasm for experimentation,
sometimes at the expense of consistency. One night the winning beef laab starter
was followed by a mysterious dish of three unwedded components -- a short rib, a
fried frangipani blossom and a pillow of plain sticky rice -- and a crispy rice
cake turned gummy beneath a crown of wonderfully rich coconut ice cream.

But each of my meals at Mie excited and intrigued enough to lure me back. One
senses that Mr. Siv is the chef to watch in a city that may be on its way to
becoming one of the region's most interesting places to eat.

85 Phum Treng Khum Slorgram; 855-12-791-371; miecafe-siemreap.com. An average
meal for two, without drinks or tip, is about $45.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/cambodia-cuisine-restaurants.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, from left: Beef laab with wakame salad, herbs and flowers
at Mie Cafe
lotus salad at Khmer Touch Cuisine
wild pea flower infusion at Mie Cafe. Above, from top: produce at the Phsar Chas
market, a source for chefs in Siem Reap
Khmer Touch features refined versions of Cambodian street food
 a dinner at the no-frills Chanrea Dom Makara. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID HAGERMAN
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); FISHES (74%); LAKES (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (65%)

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russia's War

BYLINE: By JOSEF JOFFE.

Josef Joffe, the editor of Die Zeit in Hamburg, is a fellow of the
Freeman-Spogli Institute and the Hoover Institution, both at Stanford
University, where he also teaches international politics. His most recent book
is ''The Myth of America's Decline.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1236 words


THE END OF TSARIST RUSSIAThe March to World War I and Revolution By Dominic
LievenIllustrated. 426 pp. Viking. $35.  World War I was the greatest empire
slayer of all time. Down went the Ottoman Empire, ruling from Bosnia to Basra.
Hapsburg shrank into tiny Austria. Germany and Russia remained largely intact,
but Wilhelm II ended up in exile, while the Romanovs were murdered by the
Bolsheviks. Exit sultans and kaisers; enter authoritarians and totalitarians.

The irony can't be topped. All four dynastic regimes went to war for the usual
reasons: security, power and possession -- as did democratic France, Britain and
the United States. But beset by indomitable nationality and class conflicts,
they also fought for sheer regime survival, following Henry IV's counsel, in
Shakespeare's words, to ''busy giddy minds with foreign quarrels.''

It was a momentous miscalculation that would transform 20th-century history. Had
the old despots been gifted with foresight, they would have opted for peace
Ã¼ber alles.

This is the takeoff point for Dominic Lieven's book ''The End of Tsarist
Russia.'' The tomes on the Great War fill a small library by now. Since history
is written by the victors, the first batch fingered the German Reich as starring
culprit; later works spread out along an explanatory spectrum that ranged from
inevitability to contingency. The war had to happen because so many conflicts
had built up in the 19th century, forcing the hands of leaders from London to
St. Petersburg. Or else it was the Big Stumble, a chain of folly and arrogance
constructed by everyone.

Lieven follows a different path, though it doesn't quite seem to take him where
he wants to go. In his very first sentence, he asserts that the war ''turned on
the fate of Ukraine.'' Then he wanders south and west, naming the Balkans as an
''enormous source of international tension.'' And back east to Russia, which
''occupies center stage.''

You wonder about the rest of the cast. What about France, craving to claw back
Alsace-Lorraine from its Teutonic archÂ­enemy? What about Britain, its far-flung
possessions threatened by Germany's reach for naval supremacy? What about the
three-way struggle among Britain, Austria and Russia over the moribund Ottoman
Empire? And why even stick to Europe when the war was truly global, ranging from
the Somme to Coronel (Chile), from Gaza to the Falklands, not to mention Japan's
stab at Siberia?

Claiming an ''original standpoint,'' Lieven, a senior research fellow at Trinity
College, Cambridge, seeks to offer a ''Russian history of World War I.'' Though
Sean McMeekin, drawing on sources also used by Lieven, already published ''The
Russian Origins of the First World War'' in 2011, Lieven had the good fortune of
being able to scour previously closed Russian archives. His finds constitute the
most intriguing parts of his book, making readers privy to the thinking of
Russian officials and diplomats.

Experts will love this. But how much do these details add to the whole? The
problem is that you cannot explain a Â­macro-event -- say, a recession -- by
looking at individual firms. Likewise, you cannot explain a systemwide
catastrophe by focusing on one country (Russia) or one key cause (Ukraine) or on
the effusions of the czar's minions. You have to take in the whole stage -- all
the actors, their fears and ambitions, the distribution of power.

To be sure, Lieven does offer what he calls a ''God's-eye view'' in his
introduction. But he courts trouble when he shifts to his ''worm's-eye
analysis,'' personalizing and psychologizing, as if his Russian characters
(often with German names like Lambsdorff, Witte or Osten-Sacken) wrote or even
directed the play.

Switching between ''God'' and ''worm'' raises a problem that bedevils all of
social science. In everyday language: You can't understand the forest by
describing this or that tree, nor the tree by plucking some of the apples.

To be fair, Lieven is well aware of the difficulty. And so, near the end of his
book, he argues: ''Russian foreign policy can only be understood if one takes
into account global contexts and comparisons.'' But mingling ''macro'' and
''micro'' throughout forces him into exasperating diffidence. Sweeping
generalizations are invariably followed by ''nevertheless'' or ''this is not to
claim that. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6].'' These cautionary asides honor
the scholar, but baffle the general reader.

They are not the only source of confusion. On the one hand, he tells us, the
''war was first and foremost an Eastern European conflict'' among Russians,
Germans and Hapsburgs. On the other, ''imperialism, nationalism and the dilemma
of modern empire were at the core'' of it all. So what kind of war was it --
regional or global, ideological or strategic?

Lieven also chides Anglo-American historiography for defining ''empire'' and
''imperialism'' as ''something that happens outside of Europe.'' To do so, he
claims, excludes ''empire within Europe from the picture.'' Yet World War I
experts with so parochial a view are not easy to find. In ''Churchill and
Empire,'' for instance, the historian Lawrence James writes: ''We have more or
less forgotten the fact, self-evident at the time, that the First World War was
an imperial conflict'' over ''land, economic advantage and influence,'' and not
just in the tropics. He lists the colossal ambitions of Germany, as exemplified
in Brest-Litovsk, where Berlin in 1918 forced the Bolsheviks to cede the Baltic
provinces and Finland, Ukraine, Poland and Georgia. Earlier, the Reich had
grabbed Belgium and northern France.

Turkey went for Azerbaijan and Georgia. Britain and France carved up the Ottoman
Empire, starting with the Balkans. After the Russian Revolution, Japan landed
troops in Vladivostok. And this orgy of conquest was re-enacted by Hitler,
Hirohito and Stalin in the Second World War, the extension of the first.

So we are thrown back to the great power system and not to what Messrs. Witte
and Osten-Sacken recorded in their dispatches. Lieven's archival treasures add
color, but they do not change the contours of the largest event in human history
before 1939.

Maybe we know too much about the Great War by now, with overdetermined
explanations marshaling too many arguments and crisscrossing too many levels of
analysis. Yes, the war was about fear, but also about ambition. It was about
folly, but also about greed. It was to save dynastic rule; then again, every
power except the United States (which had grabbed an inland empire in the 19th
century) went for land and dominion. The alliance systems were meant to deter
war, but actually favored hair-trigger strategies. Chauvinism kept stoking the
fires of aggression: better a war now than a risk to survival tomorrow.

''The End of Tsarist Russia'' sets up a paradox: The more we burrow, the fewer
the surprises. We should praise Lieven for digging deeper than many scholars
before him, at least in the case of Russia. But after all the treasures have
been tallied, he still puts his money on the God's-eye view, and rightly so.
This war was indeed about the Big Stuff. It was, as Lieven stresses, about
European hegemony -- about the system's failure to accommodate or contain the
newest claimant, Germany, the giant that was bound to unhinge the old order.
Hence the next war 20 years later. That is the enduring, but not startlingly
original moral of this tale.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/the-end-of-tsarist-russia-by-domi
nic-lieven.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Security, power and possession: A Russian infantry regiment of
World War I. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM UNIVERSAL HISTORY ARCHIVE/UIG VIA GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR I (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MURDER (76%); THEATER & DRAMA
(74%)

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%)

STATE: ALSACE, FRANCE (79%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); GERMANY (90%);
FRANCE (88%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tennis, Anyone? Anyone?

BYLINE: By TAL PINCHEVSKY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1038 words


Hollywood has often looked to sports for inspiration. Be it the never-say-die
underdogs in ''Hoosiers'' and ''Rocky,'' the championship pedigrees of ''Ali''
and ''Remember the Titans'' or the ragtag madness of ''Slap Shot'' and ''Major
League,'' practically every sport has enjoyed its indelible moment on the big
screen.

Except for tennis, a sport still waiting for its close-up. ''There should be
much more good movies about tennis,'' said Agnieszka Radwanska, the Polish
player who was a semifinalist at Wimbledon in July and who will be playing for
the ninth year at the United States Open, which starts in Queens on Monday.
''But there's not. I'm surprised by that.''

It's not as if tennis is an obscure sport: The Tennis Industry Association says
18 million Americans played it last year, and millions of television viewers
watch Grand Slam tournaments like the Open (though the numbers pale in
comparison with those for football and basketball). Yet the movies are scarce.
Sure, there's ''Strangers on a Train,'' Alfred Hitchcock's 1951 thriller in
which Farley Granger played a tennis star. But the sport was tangential to the
plot, much as it has been for more recent films featuring tennis players like
''The Royal Tenenbaums'' (2001) and ''Match Point,'' from 2005.

Perhaps the only serious effort in this century to portray pro tennis on the big
screen was ''Wimbledon'' (2004), a romantic comedy starring Kirsten Dunst and
Paul Bettany set against the backdrop of the sport's most famous tournament.

But ''Wimbledon'' came and went, with audience antipathy mostly shared by the
tennis world.

''There were a few things in the movie that don't really make sense as a tennis
professional,'' said Tommy Haas, the German-born player who will be in his 17th
Open this year. ''It's very hard as a tennis player to relate to the
transformation when actors are trying to play tennis. Unfortunately, it looks
awkward. You just don't buy it. You become a real critic.''

Mr. Haas isn't alone among tennis pros in his opinion. ''I think it was a story
between some girl and a guy who play sports,'' Ms. Radwanska said. ''I think
tennis was not the main thing there.''

After the lackluster performance of ''Wimbledon'' among critics and at the box
office, and probably in part because of it, Hollywood shied away from tennis
while continuing to turn out movies featuring other sports.

Now, though, that coldness toward tennis could be thawing.

It started with ''7 Days in Hell,'' the HBO mockumentary that had its premiere
in July, inspired by the 2010 Wimbledon match between the American John Isner
and the Frenchman Nicolas Mahut that lasted more than 11 hours played over three
days. Despite cameos from Serena Williams and John McEnroe, players interviewed
admitted to seeing little or none of that comedy. But at least one avid tennis
fan in Hollywood has taken it upon himself to bring a heartfelt tennis movie to
the screen.

''I always played with friends who played at a similar level,'' said Jeremy
Sisto, an actor who was a regular on ''Law & Order'' and ''Six Feet Under.''
''That's how we started the conversation about why tennis has not had a space in
the great movie index.''

The result of those conversations is the comedy ''Break Point.'' Mr. Sisto
produced and wrote the film with a fellow tennis fan, Gene Hong. He also trained
for his starring role as Jimmy Price, a former tennis prodigy who partners with
his estranged brother, Darren (played by David Walton), for a prestigious local
doubles tournament. The film also features the Oscar winner J. K. Simmons, Amy
Smart and Adam DeVine; it's available on demand before its theatrical release on
Sept. 4.

Mr. Sisto acknowledged that a movie about doubles tennis was easier to make,
with the interactions between partners. But he said he believed a successful
film about the singles game was possible.

''I think being a singles tennis player is totally badass,'' Mr. Sisto said.
''Their inner strength -- if it's not the most difficult game to have a career
in, it's one of them. There is a singles movie that could be made that could be
great. I think that is much more dark, more like 'Black Swan,' a David O.
Russell-type of film, because it's a very internal game.''

Those making a living by playing tennis don't quite have Mr. Sisto's filmmaking
vision. But it's clear that they're awaiting a proper portrayal of their sport
on the big screen, with one particular actor in mind.

''I think Jake Gyllenhaal could totally pull it off,'' said Alison Riske, an
American who is planning to play in her fourth U.S. Open this year. ''He's a
little tiny maybe for a tennis player, but I think he's pretty versatile as an
actor.''

She isn't alone in her assessment of Mr. Gyllenhaal as a potential leading man.

''I heard Jake Gyllenhaal say he spent six months learning how to box before he
did that movie 'Southpaw,' '' said Tim Smyczek, an American who will also be
playing at the Open this week. ''Something similar would be required for a movie
to be made about tennis. The actors in 'Wimbledon' probably didn't spend six
months seriously training for tennis.''

Even with the release of ''Break Point'' and ''7 Days in Hell,'' no one is
expecting a sudden tennis renaissance in Hollywood. Still, there appears to be
an interest in tennis movies, particularly among those who have dedicated their
lives to a sport that doesn't lack inspiring stories.

''You would think there would be a movie about Arthur Ashe, what kind of
humanitarian he was,'' Mr. Haas said of the tennis great whose name adorns the
stadium where the biggest matches of the U.S. Open will be played. ''He wins
Wimbledon, he becomes the Davis Cup head coach, he fights AIDS. It's crazy how
many amazing moments he had in his life. You'd think an actor could play that
role in an amazing movie that I'm still hoping will happen soon.''

For his part, Mr. Haas voiced his willingness to lend his expertise to such a
film. As far as finding the right actor, he suggests perhaps looking on the
court rather than off it. ''Maybe some tennis player needs to make a second
career,'' he said. ''I know there are a couple of guys who would love to see
themselves on the big screen.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/movies/tennis-is-big-at-us-open-but-not-on-scr
een.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: David Walton, left, and Jeremy Sisto in
''Break Point,'' in theaters in September
Emily Mortimer and Jonathan Rhys Meyers in Woody Allen's ''Match Point''
Kirsten Dunst in ''Wimbledon.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BROAD GREEN PICTURES
CLIVE COOTE/DREAMWORKS
 LAURIE SPARHAM/UNIVERSAL STUDIOS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (90%); FILM (90%); ATHLETES (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS
(79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); CELEBRITIES (79%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); MOVIE
REVIEWS (76%); COMEDY FILMS (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL
ASSOCIATIONS (67%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: TENNIS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Just in Time, a City Rises in Queens

BYLINE: By HILARY HOWARD

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2295 words


Every August since 1978, a city within a city has popped up in Flushing Meadows,
Queens. In just a few weeks, the corner of an almost 900-acre public park is
transformed into the United States Open, along with its six fully staffed
restaurants and 60 concessions stands, 20 stocked and staffed stores, five
active loading docks, dozens of artfully landscaped tennis courts and strolling
areas, a police force the size of a small Montana town, and three stadiums
filled with passionate tennis fans, some of whom will probably soon be dancing
the ''Whip/Nae Nae'' for the ''spider cam'' at Arthur Ashe Stadium. All of this
hustle and bustle will help to bring in an estimated $700 million-plus for the
New York area.

''It is now a full-blown entertainment extravaganza,'' said Justin Gimelstob, a
Tennis Channel commentator and the coach for the American player John Isner.
''The event captivates the most eclectic city in the world for two weeks.''

The logistics involved in putting together the Open, which employs more than
7,000 people and welcomes around 700,000 fans every year, seem daunting enough
without starting from a place of rubble and cranes. But that was the case this
year. Because of the construction of Ashe Stadium's new retractable steel roof,
the dramatic tension involved was understandably elevated.

Come Monday, once the qualifying rounds have concluded and the tournament has
officially begun, the village will be bursting with sponsor activities, long
food lines and glamorous watering holes, an astonishing transformation from just
over three weeks ago.


Aug. 7: Reconstruction Zone

Destruction and desolation reign outside Ashe, but inside the stadium, a
honeycomb of offices is abuzz with activity.

When the 7 train approached the Mets-Willets Point stop, winding its way through
the treetops before offering a glimpse of Ashe Stadium, it looked as though a
giant white U.F.O. had glommed onto the top of the complex. That would be the
roof, all 6,500 tons of it, which is scheduled to be operational for the 2016
Open.

Because of the $150 million roof project, the area around the stadium was a
construction zone until mid-August, delaying tournament preparations. ''Setup
has been anything but ordinary,'' said Daniel Zausner, chief operating officer
of the U.S.T.A. Billie Jean King National Tennis Center.

In early August, the grounds looked apocalyptic, as if everyone had just given
up and gone home. There were unopened crates from the tournament's 21 official
sponsors, potted flowers yet to be planted, lonely, unmanned forklifts and piles
of debris. The few individuals spotted seemed hard at work, though, including
Dashaughn Miller, who had been hired to put together a new look for a cafe in
the food village at the behest of a new promotional partner, Lavazza, an Italian
company that is providing the ''official coffee'' for the Open.

Mr. Miller was working near what would be the main entrance, which was filled
with rubble and uprooted trees. The area had been torn up in order to provide a
landing pad for the tallest crane in the country -- shipped from Germany in
December. The fountain in front of Ashe, surrounded by large piles of sand, was
dry and cracked.

On the far west side of the stadium, the five practice courts for the main-draw
players were being rebuilt, having been demolished by a second crane. Now a
grounds team had about two weeks to finish reconstructing and resurfacing them,
which is a time-consuming process.

''We had to give the construction group a drop-dead date of when we needed the
area turned back over to us,'' said Ryan Ferrera, the senior manager of courts
and grounds of the tennis center. The crane left a month ago, to allow Mr.
Ferrera's crew to remove the rubble and put down new asphalt, which needed to
cure for 30 days. About 10 coats of DecoTurf, a ''rubber and sand'' combo, he
said, was being applied to the courts. All 33 courts reserved for the tournament
receive about three new coats of DecoTurf every year, Mr. Ferrera said. ''Most
courts don't go through as much engineering as these,'' he said. ''There's a
challenge with the footprint here; there's a lot of movement, we're surrounded
by water.''

The tennis center is also surrounded by a security presence, put in place by
Michael J. Rodriguez, a former detective sergeant in the New York Police
Department and supervisor for the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Mr. Rodriguez, who
worked through the 1998 embassy bombings in East Africa and Sept. 11,
''retired'' in 2003 to work as the director of security for the U.S. Open and
security adviser for the United States Tennis Association.

A ring of private offices and hallways at the court level of Ashe thrummed with
executive purpose, but Mr. Rodriguez's command center was to be the hub of it
all. Inside, there were rows of desks outfitted with large monitors for 18
people integral to the event, including members of the Police and Fire
Departments, security operations managers, medical providers and deputy
referees.

Two women were seated in the back of the command center. They were security
coordinators in charge of putting into effect Mr. Rodriguez's strict and
complicated deliveries system. ''We had last year 1,842 truck deliveries in a
two-week period,'' he said. ''So we have created internally one of the best
truck inspection systems in the country.''

Vendors must fill out a form detailing their trucks and drivers, who are then
vetted, approved and given a bar code and specific directions to an inspection
point outside the tennis center. ''There's only one way,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.
''Anyone who tries to come off a different highway to make a delivery, the
police, who are stationed all around our perimeter, will never let them
through.''

The retail merchandise portion of these deliveries ends up at a warehouse behind
the indoor tennis center. It is run by FMI, the merchandise concessionaire for
the Open. On Aug. 7 -- a few days after the warehouse opened for the season --
it was mostly empty, with only about 100 boxes toward the back and a half-dozen
workers, looking exhausted yet content. The work, they knew all too well, was
just beginning.

''See all the booths on the grounds we have to put merchandise in? We have to
clean them all, we have to count every piece, everything that's in these boxes
has to be counted,'' said Jeff Hilty, a manager for FMI.

Mr. Hilty brought in some trusted employees to help get the process started.
Millie Cruz of Queens Village specializes in invoicing, and her quiet, confident
demeanor was welcome in a chaotic warehouse. Her sons, Thomas, 18, and Daniel,
15, were also brought in to work for the season. Thomas, who is starting at
Queens College and was back at the Open for his third year, and Daniel, a rising
sophomore at Bayside High School who was here for the first time, were ''doing
whatever we're told to do.''


Aug. 17: Taking Deliveries, Planting Trees

The grounds of the tennis center have been rebuilt. This is the day for florists
and landscapers, completing merchandising maps and receiving dry goods.

Things were noticeably coming together. Promotional banners with big fuzzy
tennis balls were hung on every post along the wooden-planked bridge from the
subway stop to the tennis center. Construction workers were putting together a
baggage-check area, and inside the grounds, larger banners, featuring tennis
champions, past and present, had gone up. (It takes eight people to install the
banners, Mr. Zausner said.)

Inside Ashe Stadium, Ashley Devolder, 26, from nearby Astoria, painted a fresh
coat of blue on a wall near the players' entrance and media center. Before this
task, she said, she had been part of a team of 20 who freshened up the 34,000
armrests on the stadium's seats. ''We had to sand them, clean them, and paint
them,'' she said. ''It took a week.''

Outside Ashe, rubble was removed and replaced by either grass or smooth asphalt.
Lights were strung at the patio of Mojito, one of the Open's sit-down
restaurants, and a new bar had been built around one of eight hard-to-miss
bright blue bases that support the new roof structure (Mr. Zausner's idea). The
main plaza was cleaned up, trees were replanted and colorful flowers were in
place at the entrance.

''We did the hanging baskets with wave petunia, and crotons and vinca,'' said
Kieran D'Arcy, a landscape designer with Garden World & Keil Brothers, a
Flushing florist.

Mr. D'Arcy said that in late winter, floral requests were sent to three or four
growers on Long Island. Just after July 4, he said, a half-dozen landscapers
started working with the 15,000 or so individual plants that arrived at the
tennis center.

The warehouse was now so full of boxes and workers that one could hardly
navigate the place. Ms. Cruz and her sons were found in another area of the
campus, setting up cash registers. When asked how his first job was going,
Daniel, the 15-year-old, said: ''At first it was a little hard and confusing,
but now that I'm used to everything it's pretty easy.''

The retail stores, which would sell all manner of U.S. Open-branded clothing and
souvenirs, were beginning to receive merchandise. Mary Ryan, the director of
merchandising and licensing for the U.S.T.A., stopped by the Octagon, a popular
store and meeting point among fans. At the counter, naked mannequin torsos
awaited 2015 Open shirts.

''Bring it on, let's do this!'' said Jeff Hilty, the FMI manager helping to
oversee the warehouse. He was in the back of the store, surrounded by boxes and
empty shelves, waiting on Ms. Ryan's ''merchandising map,'' in which she details
what goes where in each store.

And then there's the food. ''This event has become as much about the food and
beverage experience as about just being here,'' said Craig Appel, the senior
regional director of operations for Levy Restaurants. Levy oversees all food and
beverage at the Open, including restaurants and concessions, Mr. Appel said. The
company, which is based in Chicago, flew in 250 Levy managers and chefs, he
said, and hired locally for everything else: some 2,200 waiters, line cooks,
cashiers and busboys.

Food deliveries were going on virtually round the clock at two loading docks,
the main one at Ashe and a second behind the food village, Mr. Appel said.
Underneath Ashe is what Mr. Zausner referred to as the stadium's ''city of
refrigeration.'' He pointed out a room where he said 12 butchers would work, and
another where salads would be made in an assembly line.


Aug. 21: Reporting for Duty

It is the day before players start to arrive for the qualifying matches. The
grounds, beginning to pop and sparkle, are full of credentialed workers
installing sponsor exhibits, moving merchandise or undergoing job training.

In the players' dining area, a 5,500-square-foot space with sweeping olive-color
drapes and hardwood floors, where athletes and their entourages can have
made-to-order pasta or quinoa bowls and sushi, a servers' meeting was being
held, and plastic packets of blue staff T-shirts were being distributed.

Maribel Tufino, 22, from Park Slope, Brooklyn, who has worked at Starbucks, was
training to be a barista at the Lavazza coffee bar in the players' lounge. She
seemed unfazed when she was asked what she would do if Serena Williams asked her
for a cappuccino. ''I haven't seen tennis too much,'' she said. A Lavazza
trainer instructed five others on breaking down and cleaning the espresso
machines.

The lounge needed to be ready by the next morning, when about 200 players would
arrive for qualifying rounds.

At the entrance to the players' quarters, the blue wall painted by Ms. Devolder
had dried, and technicians were working on lighting both the media room and the
main gantlet walked by the tennis players to enter the court at Ashe Stadium. It
was a tech dress rehearsal.

Outside, the grounds looked like a scene from a Richard Scarry picture book:
Officials in polo shirts were riding around on golf carts; workers, elevated by
scissor lifts, were polishing the structure that held the tenting over the food
court; those merchandise crates were open, their contents being incorporated
into interactive displays by teams of shirtless men; the once-dry fountain was
spurting water; and forklifts were delivering goods to various stores and
restaurants, in front of which sat stacks of boxes, waiting to be attended to.
At Ashe's loading dock, trucks were lined up to deliver products -- tea, sugar,
cups, ice machines, soda.

North of Ashe, ESPN's new mobile headquarters had grown from a pile of cables,
crates and trailers a few weeks ago to a polished two-story broadcast compound,
with nine studios that would be staffed by more than 100 people. To Ashe's
south, in the food village, was a slightly botched wallpaper job on the exterior
of the Lavazza cafe, most likely noticeable only to Mr. Miller, who was
preparing to redo it. ''The lines don't match up,'' he said. Daniel Cruz, the
15-year-old warehouse worker, walked by the cafe looking harried, but focused.
''I'm delivering power strips to the Polo store,'' he said.

Many other teenagers would soon be gathering for work between the Grandstand and
Louis Armstrong stadiums. Tina Taps, manager of the U.S. Open ball people,
emerged from the area clearly preoccupied with a new electronic scheduling
system, not to mention training the 100 or so rookies who would be arriving in
two days. But Ms. Taps, who has held this job for over 25 years, seemed
confident. For one thing, her seasonal staff of approximately 275 includes a
group of 20 or so veterans who mentor the new people, and they do not work these
gigs for the money or the glory. ''They're doing it,'' she said, ''for the pure
enjoyment of the event.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/a-city-rises-in-queens-for-the-us-ope
n.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from far left: Practicing and painting
the new steel roof at Arthur Ashe Stadium
Tina Taps, left, manager of the ball people, including Justin Johnson
a worker on the roof
ball people taking instruction. (MB1)
Clockwise from top: The new steel roof, to be operational next year
Daniel Zausner, Tennis Center chief operating officer
Ryan Ferrera, senior manager of courts and grounds, at rebuilt practice courts
in the command center
umbrellas waiting to bloom
the ticket office
 sand and crates during construction. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATE OWEN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (MB6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS
(86%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%);
SPORTS FANS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); EXECUTIVES
(50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Other Stuff in the Sea

BYLINE: By ILEANA NAJARRO and JEFFREY E. SINGER

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words


In the narrow aisles of Golden Profit Trading, a store on Mott Street in
Chinatown selling dried seafood and medicinal herbs, shelves are stocked with
crates and glass jars full of ingredients not usually found outside this
Manhattan neighborhood. It has dried squid, bird's nest, abalone and, for the
enhancement of energy and virility, sea cucumber.

Yet one ingredient that regularly sold for at least $100 a pound is missing from
the shelves, and has been missing for more than a year: shark fin.

In July 2014, New York State banned the possession, sale and distribution of
shark fins, the key ingredient of shark fin soup, which is often served at
traditional Chinese wedding banquets as a status symbol.

Under the law, only fins from non-endangered shark species (spiny dogfish and
smooth dogfish), lawfully caught by a licensed commercial fisherman, are exempt
from the ban.

An estimated 73 million sharks are caught each year for their fins, according to
the state's Department of Environmental Conservation, with most of them thrown
back into open waters to die. This month the conservation agency announced the
first successful prosecution under the law, when Long Quan Seafood International
Trading Corporation in Brooklyn pleaded guilty to felony commercialization of
wildlife and paid a $10,000 fine for trafficking in shark fins. Officials seized
more than 700 pounds of shark fins.

Iris Ho, wildlife program manager for Humane Society International, spoke of the
significance of the case.

''This prosecution should serve as an effective deterrent for other seafood
trading companies in New York and other states, as well as restaurants who could
be sourcing illegal shark fins,'' Ms. Ho said.

Despite this one case, a year into the ban, very few consumers or restaurants
seem to have been much affected. Indeed, many Chinese customers, restaurateurs
and dried-seafood vendors have adapted and even happily embraced alternatives to
shark fin soup.

''I think that sea cucumber has a good future,'' said Simon Wan, manager of the
Jade Asian Restaurant in Flushing, Queens.

As a substitute for shark fin soup at weddings and other formal gatherings, Jade
Asian has turned to serving sea cucumber, which is not a vegetable but an
ocean-dwelling animal with a long, gelatinous body shaped like a soft-bodied
cucumber, which shrinks to a ridged form when dried.

Mr. Wan touted the sea cucumber as a nutritious source of energy and virility --
and it is less expensive than shark fin, he pointed out, in part because it is
easier to fish for and takes less time to prepare. Sea cucumber is soaked for
two to three days, while shark fin requires about four days of preparation.

Across the street in Flushing at Mulan Modern Asian Cuisine, George Chu, the
restaurant's executive chef, said bird's nest soup had replaced shark fin soup
for their special-event dinners.

In Hong Kong, bird's nest soup has usually been seen as more of a dessert soup,
Mr. Chu said. To elevate it to the status of shark fin soup, his kitchen
combines bird's nest -- which is crystallized bird saliva from a swiftlet --
with seafood soup stock.

Mr. Chu added that there was a more immediate benefit to using this alternative:
not having to withstand the fishy stench of the shark fin in his kitchen.

''I don't think shark fins taste good, anyway,'' he said.

That is not to say that full acceptance of shark fin soup alternatives happened
overnight.

For one chef at a Chinese seafood restaurant on Eighth Avenue in Sunset Park,
Brooklyn, who did not want to be named because he did not wish to publicly
challenge the ban, only shark fin soup will do.

''This is really and truly a very Chinese tradition,'' he said. ''Without it,
the party is a low-grade experience.''

Manfai Ngai, 78, a retired doctor who would routinely pick up a few ounces of
dried shark fin cartilage from one of several shops along Main Street in
Flushing, has rejected alternatives like imitation shark fin, which in some
locations can be bought for $35 a pack.

''Now they have this artificial kind made from mung bean,'' Mr. Ngai said while
walking along a stretch of stores not far from where he used to buy shark fin.
''For myself, I don't much like it.''

According to Peter How, president of the Asian American Restaurant Association,
predictions of outraged parents of newlyweds expected to treat wedding guests to
shark fin soup were overblown.

If anything, Mr. How said, families have been happy to consider alternatives
that carry the same degree of elegance at a lower price.

''Now they don't bring it up,'' Mr. How said, referring to customers' previous
desire for shark fin.

La He, who works at Golden Profit in Chinatown, said shark fin was not missed as
a sale item.

''It never sold well anyway,'' she said this month as she dealt with a customer
trying to negotiate the price of a box of bird's nest.

As Ms. He and other Chinatown seafood vendors noted, shark fin was a hard sell
for ordinary customers, given its high price.

Though some stores did see a loss.

To get rid of stock before the ban took effect, Xie Luomin, manager of the Po
Wing Hong Food Market in Chinatown, said it sold off its shark fins at
discounted prices to restaurants in New Jersey, where the shark fin trade is
still legal.

At the Hong Kong Supermarket in East Brunswick, N.J., a large yellow sign
hanging from the ceiling directed shoppers to a corner of the store where shark
fin and other premium products were dispensed from jars behind a counter.

On a recent Saturday afternoon, a thick bundle of shark fin cartilage sprouted
over the rim of a large glass jar labeled $199.99 a pound.

Shoppers walked by the counter, giving the fins little if any notice.

Aproned clerks from nearby checkout stations took turns going behind the counter
for various errands and other sales, but no one wanted shark fin that day, they
said.

Wu Jianrong, 52, originally from Guangdong Province in China, has been working
in the store's produce department for three years, yet he was only peripherally
aware that shark fin was sold there.

''I enjoy it, but I would not buy it myself,'' he said in Mandarin.

The last time he said he had the soup was over a year ago at a wedding banquet
in Brooklyn.

''It was good, but not something most people can afford,'' he said. ''Rent comes
first.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/customers-embrace-shark-fin-substitut
es.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top left: Simon Wan, a manager at Jade Asian Restaurant in
Flushing, Queens, sniffing a dried sea cucumber, an alternative to shark fin.
Top right and above: Shark fin was going for nearly $200 a pound at Hong Kong
Supermarket in East Brunswick, N.J. The delicacy is still legal in New Jersey.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAKE NAUGHTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (92%); WILDLIFE (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%);
RESTAURANTS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); ANIMALS (77%);
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); CONSERVATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS
(75%); FELONIES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%);
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (72%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (72%);
ANIMAL WELFARE (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); WEDDINGS &
ENGAGEMENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); FINES & PENALTIES
(66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (58%)

COMPANY: SEAFOOD INTERNATIONAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5146 FISH & SEAFOOD (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nice View; Rough Delivery

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 487 words


There's a tendency to think of the Hamptons as a municipal collective of elegant
perfection, the sort of place where lovers meet at just-so garden parties or
sneak away to moonlit beaches where nothing can go wrong. But at least according
to the following poems, the posh East End communities are as plagued by erotic
mischance, romantic awkwardness and the plain old fumblings of love as anywhere.
The poems were ''found'' last week in the Missed Connections section of
newyork.craigslist.org. They are reprinted verbatim with only line and stanza
breaks added; their titles are their subject headings.

Girl at Shinnecock East Beach

Hey uwere sitting next to meand my kidsat beach yesterdayu were with your
boyfriendI thinkbut we smiled at each other a few timesu were in a bikini
looking hot lolwish I could of talkedto u

East End Clam Bakes

The girl who worksat the counteris so pretty it's noteven funny.I walked in
about 6tonight askingif you guys had anyfish and chips,hope to get a response!
;]

Long Curly Hair at The Palm

You had long black curly hairat the bar at The Palmin East Hampton.You were with
two friends,a guy and a girl.I'm the tall guy in the blue shirt,we smiled a few
times but I had to leave.Would love to find outwho you are

Betty at Coffee/Bagel E. Hampton

We spoke brieflywhile awaitingthe prized bagels and coffee.Moi, swim
teacher/you, former lifeguard.Let's get together.

You're East and I'm Not

I doubt you'll see this,but I felt compelled to write. You're withthe ones you
love,and I couldn't be happier for you.I know how longyou waited for this
time,and I would NEVER infringe.But I can't get you outta my head.I look for
you, your car,your smile,your eyes.I hope you're having funand knowthere's a guy
west of youwho really digs you.

Westbound Sunrise Hwy on Sat Afternoon

To the two hot dudes driving ina pickup truck, with an unusualpaint job on the
tailgate,on Sunrise Hwy(county road 39around the outer edgeof
southampton/shinnecock hills area)heading west.You and your buddy were HOT.I was
with my partner in my vehicle.You pulled up next to us, smiled,and gave a
''hello'' nod.Looking to hang?

Where is Kevin? Ruschmeyer's Montauk

Kevin from Ruschmeyer'sMontauk Saturday night.I was the Australian girlin the
orange dress.You spilt your drink on me. It was ''fate.''Didn't mean to vanishon
you!

Car Wash Boy

He was watching youboth clean his white carbut more the skinnier guy than you.I
was watching you. ...He gave $2 tip.PitifulI would of done better. I hope this
finds youand you reply back.

Beautiful Blond Muscle Woman Blue Porsche

im guessing you was with your daughteri waited in my old pickupfor you to come
out of starbucksor radio shack......i wanted to say hibut ended up saying
beautiful....dont think it had the effect i plannedso by chance you see thisyou
look stunningare you competing in the area?would love to know moreabout youget
in touch please




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/poetic-connections-nice-view-rough-de
livery.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); POETRY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can a Novelist Be Too Prolific?

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KING.

Stephen King is the author, most recently, of ''Finders Keepers,'' the second
volume in the Bill Hodges trilogy.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words


THERE are many unspoken postulates in literary criticism, one being that the
more one writes, the less remarkable one's work is apt to be. Joyce Carol Oates,
the author of more than 50 novels (not counting the 11 written under the
pseudonyms Rosamond Smith and Lauren Kelly), understands perfectly how little
use critics have for prolific writers. In one of her journals she wrote that she
seemed to create ''more, certainly, than the literary world allows for a
'serious' writer.''

As with most postulates dealing with subjective perceptions, the idea that
prolific writing equals bad writing must be treated with caution. Mostly, it
seems to be true. Certainly no one is going to induct the mystery novelist John
Creasey, author of 564 novels under 21 different pseudonyms, into the Literary
Hall of Heroes; both he and his creations (the Toff, Inspector Roger West,
Sexton Blake, etc.) have largely been forgotten.

The same is true of the British novelist Ursula Bloom (over 500 published works,
under many pseudonyms), Barbara Cartland (over 700) and a host of others. One is
reminded of Truman Capote's famous bon mot about Jack Kerouac: ''That's not
writing, that's typing.''

Yet some prolific writers have made a deep impression on the public
consciousness. Consider Agatha Christie, arguably the most popular writer of the
20th century, whose entire oeuvre remains in print. She wrote 91 books, 82 under
her own name and nine under a nom de plume -- Mary Westmacott -- or her married
name, Agatha Christie Mallowan.

Those novels may not be literary, but they are far above the porridge turned out
by John Creasey, and some of them are strikingly good. Christie gave us two
characters -- Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot -- who have achieved a kind of
immortality. Add to this the stylistic and thematic unity of Christie's novels
(the cozy warmth of the settings and the British stereotypes, placed within the
context of her surprisingly cold appraisal of human nature), and one must view
those many books in a different light.

The same can be said of the prolific, mid-20th-century writer John D. MacDonald.
His Travis McGee novels now seem embarrassingly dated, and many of his over 40
stand-alone novels are an indigestible mix of Ernest Hemingway and John O'Hara,
but when MacDonald forgot about his literary heroes and wrote strictly for
himself, he did striking work. The best of his novels, ''The End of the Night''
and ''The Last One Left,'' rise to the level of that shape-shifting beast we
call American literature.

No one in his or her right mind would argue that quantity guarantees quality,
but to suggest that quantity never produces quality strikes me as snobbish,
inane and demonstrably untrue.

Then consider the other end of the spectrum. Donna Tartt, one of the best
American novelists to emerge in the last 50 years, has published just three
novels since 1992. Jonathan Franzen, the only American novelist who is her
equal, has published five (his latest, ''Purity,'' will appear on Tuesday).

It is easy to look at those few books, each of extraordinary quality, and
conclude that the fewer the better. Perhaps: The recently retired Philip Roth
wrote multiples more than the two of them combined, and ''Our Gang'' was pretty
awful. But then, ''American Pastoral'' seems to me a much finer novel than
either Ms. Tartt's ''The Goldfinch'' or Mr. Franzen's ''Freedom.''

I'm a recovering alcoholic, haven't had a drink in almost 27 years, and these
days the thought of drinking rarely crosses my mind. Yet when I think about
those eight novels by Ms. Tartt and Mr. Franzen -- not enough to fill even a
quarter of a library bookshelf -- I'm reminded of a lunch I had with my wife not
too long after I sobered up.

There were two older ladies at a nearby table. They were conversing with great
animation over their meals, while their half-finished glasses of white wine
stood forgotten in the middle of the table. I felt a strong urge to rise from my
place and speak to them. Only that's not right. I felt an urge to actually
hector them. To say, ''Why don't you drink your wine? It's sitting right there,
for Christ's sake. Some of us can't drink wine, we don't have that privilege,
but you can, so why the heck don't you do it?''

The long gaps between books from such gifted writers make me similarly crazy. I
understand that each one of us works at a different speed, and has a slightly
different process. I understand that these writers are painstaking, wanting each
sentence -- each word -- to carry weight (or, to borrow the title of one of
Jonathan Franzen's finest novels, to have strong motion). I know it's not
laziness, but respect for the work, and I understand from my own work that haste
makes waste.

But I also understand that life is short, and that in the end, none of us is
prolific. The creative spark dims, and then death puts it out. William
Shakespeare, for instance, hasn't produced a new play for 400 years. That, my
friends, is a long dry spell.

This is not a roundabout way of justifying my own prolificacy. Yes, I've
published more than 55 novels. Yes, I have employed a pseudonym (Richard
Bachman). Yes, I once published four books in one year (shades of James
Patterson ... except mine were longer, and written without the aid of a
collaborator). And yes, I once wrote a novel (''The Running Man'') in a single
week. But I can say, with complete honesty, that I never had any choice.

As a young man, my head was like a crowded movie theater where someone has just
yelled ''Fire!'' and everyone scrambles for the exits at once. I had a thousand
ideas but only 10 fingers and one typewriter. There were days -- I'm not kidding
about this, or exaggerating -- when I thought all the clamoring voices in my
mind would drive me insane. Back then, in my 20s and early 30s, I thought often
of the John Keats poem that begins, ''When I have fears that I may cease to be /
Before my pen has glean'd my teeming brain ...''

I imagine it was that way with Frederick Schiller Faust, better known as Max
Brand (and best known as the creator of Dr. Kildare). He wrote at least 450
novels, a feat rendered more remarkable by his ill health and premature death at
the age of 51. Alexandre Dumas wrote ''The Count of Monte Cristo'' and ''The
Three Musketeers'' -- and some 250 other novels. And there's Isaac Asimov, who
sold his first short story at 19, hammered out more than 500 books, and
revolutionized science fiction.

My thesis here is a modest one: that prolificacy is sometimes inevitable, and
has its place. The accepted definition -- ''producing much fruit, or foliage, or
many offspring'' -- has an optimistic ring, at least to my ear.

Not everyone feels that way. I remember a party where some self-appointed
arbiter of literary taste joked that Joyce Carol Oates was like the old lady who
lived in a shoe, and had so many children she didn't know what to do. In truth,
Ms. Oates knows exactly what she is doing, and why she is doing it. ''I have
more stories to tell,'' she writes in her journals, and ''more novels.'' I'm
glad of that, because I want to read them.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/31/opinion/stephen-king-can-a-novelist-be-too-pro
ductive.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ELEANOR DAVIS) (SR5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (94%); LITERATURE (91%); LITERARY CRITICISM
(90%); WRITERS (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE
(89%); PUBLISHING (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Masterpiece Steps Toward Completion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BECKERMAN.

Michael Beckerman is a music professor at New York University and a
distinguished professor of history at Lancaster University in England.

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1387 words


Last year, the Czech musicologist Petr Danek was in the Franciscan library in
Slany, about 20 miles northwest of Prague, searching for Renaissance and early
Baroque musical prints. He noticed large bound volume on a high shelf and,
taking it down, realized it was a special find: the bass parts for a rare
collection of vocal polyphony from the beginning of the 17th century.

''But then I suddenly came across something marked 'Violino,' '' he recalled in
a recent interview. ''I turned the page, and I immediately knew what it was.''

Mr. Danek muttered a Czech epithet. He had found the missing ritornellos of
''The Czech Lute,'' one of the great works of the Czech Baroque.

Comprising 13 strophic songs fusing erotic love and religious devotion in a
combination that can seem to anticipate Mozart's ''The Magic Flute,'' it was
published by the poet-composer Adam Michna in 1653. In the original version,
each song had an instrumental introduction, which recurred between stanzas.
Musical passages of this kind are called ritornellos (Italian for ''little
return''), and for more than 360 years, until Mr. Danek came upon them, Michna's
had been missing. The discovery was astonishing, the Czech equivalent of
unearthing unknown sections of another late Mozart work, the unfinished Requiem,
in the composer's hand.

While celebrated as a Czech masterpiece, the ''Lute'' is actually an adaptation
of an earlier German poetic work, the ''Marianum Epithalamium'' of Johannes
Khuen. The cycle depicts, according to the Czech musician and scholar Michael
Pospisil, two mystic marriages: that of the Virgin Mary with God and that of the
human soul with Christ.

''Michna guides the Soul, and us, through the dangers and temptations of the
world, from the time of the creation to the threshold of Paradise, in what is
almost a theatrical performance,'' Mr. Pospisil said. Like much Czech Baroque
music, the ''Lute'' marries Renaissance rhythmic energy and advanced harmonies
in order to express a highly charged mysticism.

Michna was an aristocrat and organist, well aware of the latest musical
developments in the high style, but he was also a tavernkeeper, and his
compositions are filled with popular and vernacular allusions as well. While his
sumptuous poetic language is replete with historical references and deeply
philosophical turns, it is also studded with words and images from the inn and
the countryside. We can see this interplay in the rhyming words of the title
page: '' 'The Czech Lute'/On Holy Days/On Fridays/In Church/At the Table/As You
Please/At Any Time/Sounding Joyfully/Plaintively/and Redemptively.''

These seeming contradictions -- sacred and profane, high and low culture -- are
central to the composition. Published five years after the end of the Thirty
Years' War, ''The Czech Lute'' is a plea for and celebration of peace,
symbolized by the lute itself. That ''The Czech Lute'' is broadly celebratory is
obvious from the ''hit song'' of the collection ''Andelske Pratelstvi''
(''Angelic Friendship''), with its stirring text -- ''Guests are arriving at the
heavenly palace; humankind has plenty of lovers'' -- and sprightly tune, a
likely ancestor of ''Ein Mädchen oder Weibchen'' from ''The Magic Flute.'' And
yet at the same time, the cycle trades in conflict, framing a duel between the
flesh and the spirit (Song No. 12's title is ''Domestic Strife Between the Soul
and the Body'').

Knowledge about ''The Czech Lute'' came together rather slowly, starting in the
early 20th century. Although bits and pieces of the collection are found in many
18th-century manuscripts, its identity as a cycle was realized only in the
1920s, and it was first published in 1943 in a version with only one voice. In
1960, another source appeared, adding a second voice. This became the basis for
a new edition by the scholar Martin Horyna in 1984, on which many performances
and several recordings have been based.

Still missing were the ritornellos, even as their existence was clearly
indicated in the organ part. While a 1991 recording by Musica Bohemica used
instrumental arrangements of the songs in place of the missing portions, Mr.
Pospisil, the musician and scholar, created his own versions over the extant
bass part five years after that and made his own edition. Based on a meticulous
study of Michna's oeuvre, and beautifully recorded by his ensemble (called, not
entirely coincidentally, Ritornello), his reconstruction was both masterly and
convincing, giving fresh life to the composition.

With Mr. Danek's discovery, we can now compare Mr. Pospisil's work with Michna's
originals. Perhaps there have been other cases in which an authentic version of
a lost work appears after its torso has been reconstructed. Few situations,
however, offer this kind of opportunity to line up invented material and the
real thing.

Asked if he was surprised by any of Michna's ritornellos, Mr. Pospisil replied
that he was surprised by all of them. They certainly differ from his in many
ways, perhaps most notably in terms of their complexity and virtuosity, and this
is obvious from the beginning. In the first song, ''Predmluva'' (''Prologue''),
Mr. Pospisil's version is simple and elegant; the original is far more elaborate
with ascending lines and expressive leaps.

Michna has long been considered a kind of progenitor of the ''countryside meets
the city'' concept of Czechness, with folk intonations and urban sophistication
cheek by jowl -- and this is true to a certain extent for his music. But some of
these ritornellos are examples of the whimsical fantastic rather than the
idyllic, especially Song No. 5, ''Panenska Laska'' (''Virgin Love''). While Mr.
Pospisil offered an exquisite pastoral, with recorders playing sweetly together,
the original features quick repeated notes in the violins, incorporating
fanfare-like leaps that lead to sensuous cadences. This is so wacky that it
suggests that even in music, the truth can be stranger than fiction.

Mr. Pospisil's version of Song No. 7, ''Duchovni Svadebni Lazen'' (''The
Spiritual Wedding Bath'') presents cornettos in dialogue playing a simple line,
while the newly discovered ritornello, though similar in melodic shape, is far
more elaborate, especially at the virtuosic ending. Perhaps the greatest
contrast is in the final song, ''Smutek Blaznivych Panen'' (''Sorrow of the
Erring Maidens''). Ensemble Inegal's 2015 recording of Michna's original
preserves the mournful solemnity of the descending line, while Mr. Pospisil
celebrates the conclusion with pipes and tambourines as a joyous ''moresca,'' a
wild dance usually performed with masks and costumes.

If, after considering these comparisons, we are tempted to say that, in a strict
sense, some of Mr. Pospisil's ritornellos are now possibly ''wrong,'' they also
represent the spirit of musical inquiry as much as the recently discovered
genuine article. And while we can say that ''The Czech Lute'' is now nearly
complete, that does not mean that we fully understand it, especially since no
one fully comprehends the mysterious way text and music combine to create
powerful effects not present in either. Michna's work has a magical quality of
tone, color and rhythmic bounce, an incredible agility. Song No. 6, ''Zehnani s
Svetem'' (''Taking Leave of the World''), manages to suggest the breathless
quality of hot flames in the first two lines and then effortlessly switches to
intertwining amorous voices when the subject turns to love.

Despite Mr. Danek's phenomenal discovery, and the visionary work of Mr. Pospisil
and others, ''The Czech Lute'' is not even close to divulging all of its
secrets. We still do not know the full story of the work's contexts -- whether
it was a largely theatrical piece, as Mr. Pospisil believes, a concert work or
something else entirely. We do not know what instruments and tempos might have
been used and whether the composer intended for all or just some of the verses
to be performed.

But despite this, or rather because of it, the sources, notes and performances
of ''The Czech Lute'' will provide grist for discussion, controversy and
enormous pleasure for years and decades to come. The new -- or, rather, old --
ritornellos are just a start. In the words of the work's prologue: ''I shall
begin my song/And play my lute.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/music/the-czech-lute-a-baroque-masterpiec
e-gets-filled-in.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adam Michina's ''The Czech Lute'' is considered a landmark of
the Czech Baroque era, but it has been known only in its partial version. A
musicologist last year discovered the work's surprisingly complex violin
ritornellos, top. Above, the organ part of the cycle indicating the harmonies
for the ritornellos. Left, the title page from 1653. Above far left, a
decorative element called a mascaron at the end of the ritornellos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%);
MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); RELIGION (88%); POETRY (88%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%);
WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); WRITERS (73%); INTERVIEWS
(70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (63%)

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (73%)

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When the Bombs Rained Down

BYLINE: By KATIE ENGELHART

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; HEADS UP; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 830 words


Beginning in the autumn of 1940, German Luftwaffe pilots bombed London for 57
consecutive nights. It began on Sept. 7, when 348 German bombers and 617
Messerschmitt fighters appeared in the clear skies above the British capital and
began to pound the area with explosives. In the months that followed, great
numbers of aghast Londoners fled to the countryside. But many more stayed put,
through air raids that flattened great swaths of the city and killed 20,000
residents. When the bomb shelters filled up, tens of thousands of Londoners
filed into Underground stations, where they slept, packed like sardines, on the
concrete platforms.

This September marks the 75th anniversary of the Blitz (short for the German
Blitzkrieg, for ''lightning war''), Nazi Germany's eight-month wartime bombing
campaign against Britain. This fall, London's robust tourism industry will
commemorate the capital's time under siege.

Already, assorted Blitz-themed walking tours abound. On a recent Sunday, several
dozen tourists met near the Thames River for a ''Westminster at War'' tour
(London Walks, £10, about $15; walks.com), led by a bespectacled gentleman tour
guide who sternly warned the attendees that they ''mustn't shilly-shally,'' for
there was much to see.

The tour meandered toward Leicester Square where, in 1940, some well-heeled
Londoners used to ignore the howling air raid sirens and spent their evenings
dancing at the Café de Paris (until it, too, fell to the Blitz, demolished by a
110-pound high-explosive bomb in March 1941). Another stop brought the tour to
the Savoy Hotel, where some of the staff was fired in the early stages of war
because they were Italian.

''This entire area was rebuilt in the 1960s,'' the guide explained, ''when we
had no money and no taste.''

Several new exhibits consider how a variety of British citizens experienced the
Blitz. At the Royal Air Force Museum, visitors can hop inside a Spitfire, the
plane flown by British pilots as they battled the Luftwaffe (£4;
rafmuseum.org.uk).

One wildly popular summer exhibition has been the Imperial War Museum's
delightfully titled ''Fashion on the Ration.'' (£10; iwm.org.uk; through Aug.
31). Objects on display included a ladies' handbag with a built-in compartment
for government-issued gas masks, and posters urging women to maintain their
appearance during the air raids, lest their dowdy looks undermine the morale of
British men.

The war is known to have inspired some of Prime Minister Winston Churchill's
greatest oratory, but it also solidified the leader's sartorial legacy. A
favorite print on display at the war museum showed Churchill meeting Gen. Dwight
D. Eisenhower, dressed, astonishingly, in what we would now call a romper, or
onesie, belted around his ample belly. Churchill popularized these so-called
''siren suits'' -- one-piece zip-up garments -- as practical bomb shelter
attire.

If this whets the appetite for Churchill, there is also the Cabinet War Rooms,
the fortified bunker that served as the prime minister's wartime headquarters
(£18; iwm.org.uk).

But history-minded tourists should be wary of a British tendency to look back on
the Blitz with something akin to nostalgia: not for the bombs themselves, but
for the ''Blitz Spirit'' that they purportedly engendered. London tour guides
are keen to promote the notion that a plucky, egalitarian, ''We're all in it
together'' sentiment dominated the time -- a claim that newer generations of
historians has described as romanticized.

To that end, a complete Blitz experience should include a walk through London's
East End: the once down-and-out industrial quarter where German bombers devoted
their greatest efforts and where government aid was woefully lacking. Indeed,
the East suffered so greatly that when Buckingham Palace was bombed on Sept. 13,
Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother said that she was glad for the hit, because she
wanted the Blitz burden to be shared. ''Now we can look the East End in the
eye,'' she famously said. Today, the Blitz's legacy is seen in places like
Wapping and the Barbican complex, in the absence of pretty Victorian homes and
the plethora of Brutalist postwar apartment blocks.

When visitors tire of walking, they might choose to dance. The Bourne &
Hollingsworth Group runs a regular Blitz Party where, for £25, attendees can
experience ''wartime revelry'' in an ''authentic air raid shelter,'' with
sandbags, blackout curtains, swing music and cocktail menus printed in tiny
ration books. (Venues vary.) Costume attire is mandatory and taken seriously.

But those of us who live in London might hope that the Blitz remains more firmly
buried in the past. In March, city officials found an unexploded 1,000-pound
World War II bomb in a sports center in south London. After the bomb was
defused, Southwark Councillor Lucas Green commended his constituents for their
composure during the incident: ''This area lived through the Blitz, and it
remembers how to handle itself.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/london-blitz-world-war-2.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise, from top left: At the Royal Air Force Museum,
exhibits in the newly revamped main atrium include a Spitfire, a Harrier jump
jet, a V-2 rocket and a ''Doodlebug,'' which wreaked havoc on London during
World War II
a new building in one of the bombed-out areas in which corporations are
encouraged to invest
the East End was particularly badly hit
 and the ''Walkie Talkie'' building, in a bombed area of the financial district.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY HASLAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); EXHIBITIONS (85%); AIR
FORCES (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); LODGING (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%);
HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); TOURISM (69%); THIS DAY IN
HISTORY (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); WESTMINSTER, ENGLAND (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Series Final Is Set

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | LITTLE LEAGUE; Pg.
8

LENGTH: 77 words


Chayton Krauss hit a run-scoring single to right field to give Lewisberry, Pa.,
a 3-2 victory over Pearland, Tex. -- in front of a record crowd announced at
almost 46,000 in South Williamsport, Pa. -- for a berth in the Little League
World Series championship game.

Lewisberry will play Tokyo on Sunday for the World Series championship. Tokyo
beat Mexicali, Mexico, 1-0.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/little-league-world-series-fin
al-is-set.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASEBALL (88%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); MEXICO (66%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Unlikely Debut

BYLINE: By JOHN WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; OPEN BOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 438 words


A map changed Naomi J. Williams's life. The author of the debut novel
''Landfalls,'' reviewed this week, received an antique map of Alaska from her
husband, and became curious about two ships listed on it: the Boussole and the
Astrolabe. ''Next thing I knew,'' she said in an email interview, ''a decade had
passed and I had this book.''

The novel, told from multiple perspectives, recounts an ambitious 18th-century
attempt by French explorers to circumnavigate the globe. Williams said the
research was daunting in terms of ''volume and stamina,'' though material wasn't
hard to find, including the two-volume journals of Jean-François de Galaup de
Lapérouse, the expedition's leader. ''I loved reading Lapérouse's journal, but I
am a complete geek,'' Williams said. ''Perhaps the average person would not find
it quite so riveting.''

If the research was relatively easy, the book's structure, with its shifting
points of view and large cast of characters, posed a continual challenge. ''With
every new chapter, I'd think, 'This is it; the project is dead.' But I'd keep
writing anyway because I was too obsessed to stop,'' Williams said.

''Landfalls'' was influenced by Williams's favorite nautical fiction, including
Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series, the Horatio Hornblower books and
''Moby-Dick.'' Although she enjoys an occasional adventure story (they allow her
to ''experience vicariously things that I am too chicken to do in real life''),
Williams said she couldn't have predicted the nature of her fictional debut.
''I'm just the most unlikely person to have written this book,'' she said.
''Very little about my personal history, education, lifestyle, hobbies or even
reading habits would have led one to suspect I'd end up the author of a book
like 'Landfalls.' ''

Quotable

''I am as sincerely interested in novels that fail as I am in novels that
succeed. I just want to work them out. It's a pleasure for me actually.'' -- The
critic James Wood, in an interview with Slate

Kids' Lists

This week marks a significant change to our children's best-­seller lists. The
middle-grade and young adult lists in our pages now reflect hardcover sales
only, which will allow more new books to make it to our lists. You can still
find paperback and e-book best sellers for middle graders and young adults
online. Like the adult fiction and nonfiction hardcover lists, these
reconfigured lists will better reflect the range of newly published novels for
children and teenagers, while still keeping you updated on children's book sales
across all categories. Kids are still, according to the numbers, voracious
readers.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/an-unlikely-debut.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Louis XVI giving instructions to Captain Lapérouse in 1785.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FINE ART IMAGES/HERITAGE IMAGES, VIA GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%);
FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ADULTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BOOK SALES (78%);
BESTSELLERS (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%);
ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); CHILDREN (66%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; INBOX; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 469 words


Keep Baseball Timeless

To the Sports Editor:

Re ''Changing Times in Baseball,'' Aug. 24: The new move to speed up baseball
games describes a sad and unnecessary step in changing the game.

One of the beauties of baseball is that its play does not depend on a clock or
on timing anything. So if one pitcher takes a little longer between pitches than
another, or one batter steps out of the box for a few seconds more than another
between pitches, so what? Timing of events in a baseball game was never intended
to affect the play of the game, and it should never be allowed to. The pace of
play should be up to the players alone.

Get rid of the clocks and timers and let the play go on as the players see fit.
Baseball has lasted as long as it has because it is a nearly perfect sport the
way it is. Its only current imperfection is the designated hitter. Get rid of
it.

RICHARD S. SNEDEKER, West Windsor, N.J.

Leave Alligators Alone

To the Sports Editor:

Re '''Bama vs. Gators in a Deadly Game,'' Aug. 23: Glorifying cruel hunts in
which people try to kill the largest alligator they can find is tone-deaf and
out of touch. The public is appalled -- not impressed -- by people who torment
and kill animals for an ego boost. Look no further than the massive outcry over
Cecil the lion's execution.

Just as Cecil suffered after being blinded with a spotlight, shot with a steel
arrow and left in pain for 40 hours, alligators suffer when they are hooked and
harpooned. And how many alligators have languished in agony because of a
hunter's poorly placed bullet?

Alligators aren't ''hunters''-- they are opportunistic feeders who usually lie
dormant, waiting for prey to come to them. Large alligators feed primarily on
fish, snakes, turtles, small mammals and birds. Most prefer to flee, not fight,
if approached by a human.

Alligators aren't trophies or targets. They are living beings, and they deserve
to be left in peace.

EMILY MCCOY, New York

Remembering Dawkins

To the Sports Editor:

When I heard that Darryl Dawkins had died at 58, I flashed back to an autumn
afternoon in 1976, when he was only 19 and on top of the world.

While en route from one class to the next at Camden County College, I strolled
past the gym and was astonished to see Darryl, all 6 feet 11 inches of him,
casually shooting jump shots in front of a few equally surprised onlookers. I
guess word hadn't gotten around that Chocolate Thunder was in the house.

For a few minutes, I stood in awe, watching him pump-fake, shoot and joke around
with the students fortunate to be fetching rebounds for him under the basket.
Heading to my next class, all I could think was that I'd somehow just witnessed
an honest-to-goodness 76er on what otherwise would have been just another
ordinary school day.

SAM BUTTARI, Bloomfield, N.J.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/letters-to-the-editor.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darryl Dawkins, posing for a portrait while with the Nets in
1984, was known for his dunking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOREN TROTMAN/NBAE -- GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (87%); ANIMALS (69%); MAMMALS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dances With Dolphins

BYLINE: By KATHERINE HARMON COURAGE.

Katherine Harmon Courage, a contributing editor at Scientific American, is the
author of ''Octopus! The Most Mysterious Creature in the Sea.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 945 words


VOICES IN THE OCEANA Journey Into the Wild and Haunting World of Dolphins By
Susan CaseyIllustrated. 302 pp. Doubleday. $27.95.  At a time when many of us
might turn to religion or to mood-altering substances, Susan Casey turned to
dolphins.

Casey's marriage had ended, her anchor of a father had died, she felt miserably
numb and alone. On a solo swim in Honolua Bay, Hawaii, she met a pod of spinner
dolphins that decided to swim along with her, buoying her spirits long after the
encounter ended. Back at work in Manhattan, she pinned dolphin pictures to her
office wall. ''However brief my dolphin visitation had been, it was stuck to me,
lodged inside my head,'' she writes in ''Voices in the Ocean.'' ''It was as
though I'd been hit by lightning and that one strike had zapped clean through my
brain, replacing its usual patterns and wavelengths and nerve impulses with a
dolphin highlight reel. I couldn't forget the way the pod had sized me up, or
their peculiar squeaking, creaking language, or how ridiculously fun it was to
just cruise along with them.''

It is with this newfound infatuation that Casey embarks on a pilgrimage to study
these beguiling, intelligent, frequently mythologized (and increasingly
threatened) creatures -- and our relationship with them.

This seems a rich topic for an author who has already covered sharks (''The
Devil's Teeth'') and rogue waves (''The Wave''). Dolphins -- technically a group
of toothed whales, from bottlenoses to orcas -- offer up a ready-made,
fascinating tale. Their ancestors, hoofed wolflike animals, slunk into the seas
55 million years ago. In their new environment they evolved into highly
successful hunters, developing a sonar system that still puts our best military
technology to shame. This aural brand of vision projects high-frequency clicks
from a specialized organ in the forehead and collects nuanced echoes back
through a receiver in the jaw. With sonar, dolphins can detect the slightest
differences in distant objects' size, shape and even density -- gleaning the
molecular variances between a sheet of copper and a sheet of aluminum.

''Voices in the Ocean'' is full of such tantalizing tidbits, but Casey makes it
clear from the beginning that the more we learned about dolphins, ''the more we
needed to make sense of our findings, not only with our minds but also with our
hearts.''

Her mission to capture ''the strange, enduring, occasionally tragic and often
wonderful relationship between humans and dolphins'' quickly takes a turn for
the odd (some might say unsavory). A scientist drops acid with his cetacean
charges; a London woman ''marries'' a dolphin companion; a persistently aroused
male bottleÂ­nose convinces his caretaker to give him regular manual
stimulation. And that's not to mention the traffickers, warlords and cult
leaders.

Such remarkable stories -- gleaned through Casey's archival research and treks
to such out-of-the-way places as a human-dolphin community in Hawaii and an
abandoned resort in the volatile Solomon Islands, where dolphin teeth are still
considered a sort of currency -- could make for enthralling reading, whether as
scholarly ethnography or absurdist narrative. But Casey's earnestness grates,
and her frequent recourse to scientific hearsay (she claims dolphins can sense
if a human is pregnant, which has not been proved) and magical thinking (''It's
really not that unreasonable to wonder if behind their Mona Lisa grins, dolphins
might be in on some good cosmic secrets'') often leaves the reader adrift,
grasping for cohesion.

Casey's previous book, ''The Wave,'' astonished with its deep reporting and
captivating narrative. Her latest effort instead leaves the reader awash in
platitudes and mysticism. The vessel feels leaky, and much of her journey lacks
firm footing.

In her travels, Casey swims with captive subjects of the lucrative live dolphin
trade, where a wild-caught animal can fetch $200,000 in a sale to a marine park;
meets globe-trotting activists (including a former trainer of the five female
dolphins that played Flipper on television); and shares beers with a vilified
dolphin trafficker. But many of the topics covered in this book will sound
familiar, whether from recent popular documentaries (''Blackfish,'' ''The
Cove''), the playful days of ''Flipper'' or the many environmental campaigns in
between.

The fringe elements rise up to become the book's unlikely stars. If cosmic
secrets are your goal and dolphins are your chosen sibyls, then starting your
expedition with a trip to the Big Island's DolphinÂ­ville -- less an actual
place than a shared state of mind'' -- might not be so unreasonable. The
matriarch, or ''pod leader,'' of the 200 human residents of Dolphinville is Joan
Ocean, ''a New Jersey-born psychologist turned New Age dolphin guru,'' who
receives messages directly from dolphins (one communiquÃ©: ''Pay more attention
to opera''). Instead of regarding Dolphinville with critical distance, Casey
reports only feeling the ''incandescent warmth you feel around someone you
love.''

In the words of the astrophysicist Arthur Eddington, whom Casey quotes here and
in ''The Wave,'' ''not only is the universe stranger than we imagine, it is
stranger than we can imagine.'' But her quest for ''some innate spiritual
connection'' with dolphins is a curious way to illustrate that notion. Instead,
''Voices in the Ocean'' seems to solidify one of her passing musings about
dolphins, that ''maybe they're overrated .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. and
in a well-intentioned but misguided way, we project our spiritual longing onto
them. Maybe we are hard-wired to love any animal that looks like it's always
smiling.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/susan-caseys-voices-in-the-ocean.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A baby bottlenose swims beside its mother. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TOSHIFUMI KITAMURA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); SONAR SYSTEMS (89%); RELIGION
(77%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); ANIMALS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); WRITERS
(69%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%)

STATE: HAWAII, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When a Child Knocks

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 821 words


I am a gay woman who lives near a single mother and her sweet 9-year-old son.
The boy goes to a Roman Catholic parochial school. Every other minute he is
knocking on my door, trying to sell me something to benefit the school. (This
week it was candy for the athletic department.) I like these neighbors, but I
have little interest in supporting private schools and even less interest in
supporting church schools that take a dim view of my marriage. How can I deal
with these neighbors nicely?

M.R., VERMONT

We can all sympathize with feeling over-peddled. Just this week, I watched a TV
show on my iPad and was subjected to approximately 400 commercials for Zac
Efron's lame-looking new D.J. movie. (Ease up, ABC Family.) Door-to-door sales
calls are even worse. We know the deal with apps, but we have an expectation of
privacy in our homes. Still, be gentle with saleschildren. Odds are, this little
boy didn't take it into his own head to terrorize you with Christian M&M's.

Call his mother (or speak with her, if she is accompanying her son). Say: ''Mary
and I have a limited budget for charitable donations. And as lesbians, the
Catholic Church is not high on our list. We are really fond of you and Billy,
but we hope you'll understand that we are going to pass on your church's candy,
wrapping paper and greeting cards.''

Directness probably beats hiding in your bedroom (or spending $10) every time
the boy rings your doorbell. And if you really want to be nice, offer him a
glass of lemonade when you see him on his appointed rounds. It's hot out there
for a huckster.

Macabre Jewelry

My mother died recently and was cremated. Her ashes were scattered in the ocean,
as she wanted. But as I drove my brother to the memorial ceremony, he bragged
that his wife had charmed the funeral director into reserving some of the ashes,
from which she had a pendant made for him. I told him not to tell my father or
anyone else. But I am devastated and appalled. What should I do?

ANONYMOUS

I am sorry for your loss. But right now, I suspect that your devastation at your
mother's death, a world-class blow for most of us, is all tangled up with your
brother's macabre taste in jewelry. Try to keep quiet about this until your
heartache is under control -- for several months, at least. Better to focus on
your true grief.

The damage of the pendant is already done. I doubt you would feel any better
stealing it from your brother and throwing it into the ocean. And remember: He
is grieving, too. Try to think of the pendant as a distant relation of mourning
jewelry popularized by Queen Victoria after Prince Albert died. Survivors have
worn locks of their deceased loved ones' hair in lockets for centuries. Your
mother might even have given your brother limited dispensation for something
like this.

Feel free to scold the funeral director, whose behavior seems unprofessional if
there was a signed document about the ashes. But it's more important to struggle
through your real loss now than getting distracted by your brother's selfish
behavior.

Not-So-Private Message

I am an artist with a full-time job. I asked a co-worker, in a private Facebook
message on our personal accounts, if she could connect me with a high-powered
person who recently left the company. I thought I might get some marketing tips.
I also wrote: ''I want to get out of here, LOL,'' meaning: I want to quit my job
when my artwork takes off. Well, this co-worker showed my private message to my
boss (her husband). He is furious and says I should leave if I want to. I feel
betrayed.

ANDIE, NEW YORK

If you really don't understand, for the vast majority of married couples, that
when you tell the husband something it flows straight to the wife (and vice
versa), you need more than art-marketing tips. You need help understanding how
the world works. The only exception to this marital cheesecloth: close friends
who swear confidentiality, and even those secrets are breached more often than
not. Tell your boss you were joking. And learn your lesson: Your co-worker is a
wife first, and friend second.

Mealtime Manners

At a restaurant, the waitress asked one of our least favorite questions: ''Still
working on your dinner?'' My wife replied, ''No. I'm vacationing on it.'' I
thought she was snarky; she thought she was being educational. You?

GEOFFREY, BALTIMORE

Better ''still working on it'' than my newish bête noire: ''Still enjoying your
chicken Milanese?'' How presumptuous is that? It makes me want to catalog, in
screaming detail, every morsel I hate about it. Yes, your wife was sassy. But
assuming she has some Bette Midler flair, she probably gave the waitress a good
chuckle. (Servers: Try ''May I clear?'')

For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ­@nytimes.com or
SocialQ on Facebook. You can also address your queries on Twitter to
@SocialQPhilip. Please include a daytime phone number.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/when-a-child-comes-knocking-selling-ca
ndy.html

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); RELIGION (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%);
CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); SINGLE PARENTS
(78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); MARRIAGE
(75%); CHARITIES (72%)

PERSON: ZAC EFRON (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Children's Series Books: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 320 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Children's Series
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1        1 DESCENDANTS,  by Melissa de la Cruz. (Disney-Hyperion) On a
           quest of redemption, the children of evil villains start to
           realize that being good isn?t so bad. (Ages 10 to 14)
2      149 THE MAZE RUNNER,  by James Dashner. (Delacorte) Amnesiac
           teenagers endure a series of trials. (Ages 12 and up)
3       90 GIVER QUARTET,  by Lois Lowry. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
           Exploring human connection in a post-apocalyptic world. (Ages
           12 to 18)
4      370 PERCY JACKSON & THE OLYMPIANS,  by Rick Riordan.
           (Disney-Hyperion) A boy battles mythological monsters. (Ages 9
           to 12)
5      334 HARRY POTTER,  by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic) A wizard hones
           his conjuring skills in the service of fighting evil. (Ages 10
           and up)
6       95 DIVERGENT,  by Veronica Roth. (Katherine Tegen) A girl must
           prove herself in a dystopia divided into five factions. (Ages
           14 and up)
7      336 DIARY OF A WIMPY KID,  written and illustrated by Jeff Kinney.
           (Amulet) The travails and challenges of adolescence. (Ages 9 to
           12)
8       10 LAND OF STORIES,  by Chris Colfer. Illustrated by Brandon
           Dorman. (Little, Brown) Fairy tales and classic stories
           collide. (Ages 8 to 12)
9      135 DORK DIARIES,  by Rachel Renée Russell. (Simon & Schuster)
           Nikki Maxwell navigates the halls of middle school. (Ages 9 to
           13)
10      52 THE SELECTION,  by Kiera Cass. (HarperTeen) A fierce
           competition offers 35 girls a chance to escape a life laid out
           for them since birth. (Ages 13 and up)

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE
(90%); CHILDREN (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS
(73%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: VERONICA ROTH (79%); J K ROWLING (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Trade Fiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 434 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback Trade
           Fiction
This    On
Week  List
1        9 GREY,  by E. L. James. (Vintage) A "Fifty Shades of Grey"
           sequel, told from Christian?s point of view, revisits the
           tortured romance between the controlling billionaire and the
           unassuming Ana.
2       42 THE MARTIAN,  by Andy Weir. (Broadway) After a dust storm
           forces his crew to abandon him, an astronaut embarks on a
           dogged quest to stay alive on Mars.
3      367 THE ALCHEMIST,  by Paulo Coelho. (HarperOne/HarperCollins) In
           this fable, a Spanish shepherd boy ventures to Egypt in search
           of treasure and his destiny.
4        1 BIG LITTLE LIES,  by Liane Moriarty. (Berkley) A death at an
           elementary school's trivia night reveals the rivalries among
           the parents and raises questions of murder.
5       11 EVERYTHING I NEVER TOLD YOU,  by Celeste Ng. (Penguin) A
           daughter?s death from drowning tears away at a Chinese-American
           family in 1970s Ohio.
6        8 READY PLAYER ONE,  by Ernest Cline. (Broadway) It?s 2044, life
           on a resource-depleted Earth has grown increasingly grim, and
           the key to a vast fortune is hidden in a virtual-reality world.
7*      93 DARK PLACES,  by Gillian Flynn. (Broadway) A woman who, as a
           child, was spared when her mother and sisters were murdered
           begins to reinvestigate the case against her imprisoned
           brother.
8       10 EUPHORIA,  by Lily King. (Grove) Three anthropologists, in the
           wilds of 1930s New Guinea, find themselves caught in a
           passionate love triangle.
9       19 THE GOLDFINCH,  by Donna Tartt. (Back Bay/Little, Brown) After
           his mother is killed in a museum explosion, a young man
           grapples with the world alone while hiding a prized Dutch
           painting.
10      10 STATION ELEVEN,  by Emily St. John Mandel. (Vintage) After a
           pandemic, a small troupe of actors and musicians dedicate
           themselves to keeping the remnants of art and humanity alive.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. THE KITE RUNNER,  by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead)

12. SOMEWHERE SAFE WITH SOMEBODY GOOD,  by Jan Karon. (Berkley)

13. PRIVATE VEGAS,  by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Grand Central)

14. AMERICANAH,  by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. (Anchor)

15. ORPHAN TRAIN,  by Christina Baker Kline. (Morrow/HarperCollins)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); MURDER
(87%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (73%); ORPHANS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); FAMILY (70%);
WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); THEATER COMPANIES (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%);
PAINTING (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); VIRTUAL
REALITY (50%)

PERSON: DONNA TARTT (79%); E L JAMES (79%); JAMES PATTERSON (58%)

STATE: MARS (71%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Best Sellers: Hardcover Graphic Books: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 439 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Hardcover Graphic
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1      166 BATMAN: THE KILLING JOKE,  by Alan Moore and Brian Bolland. (DC
           Comics) This critically acclaimed story from 1988 offers a
           possible origin for the Joker.
2       67 CAN'T WE TALK ABOUT SOMETHING MORE PLEASANT?,  by Roz Chast.
           (Bloomsbury) In this memoir, the cartoonist examines her
           parents from their early days as mother and father to their
           later years facing old age and poor health.
3        1 BABA YAGA?S ASSISTANT,  by Marika McCoola and Emily Carroll.
           (Candlewick Press) A teenage girl ventures into the woods and
           applies for a job as the assistant to Russian folklore?s most
           infamous witch.
4        6 IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME: SWANN'S WAY,  by Marcel Proust. Adapted
           and illustrated by Stéphane Heuet. Translated by Arthur
           Goldhammer. (Liveright) The first part of Proust?s seven?volume
           novel is adapted here, where the narrator recalls moments from
           his childhood.
5       17 THE THRILLING ADVENTURES OF LOVELACE AND BABBAGE,  by Sydney
           Padua. (Pantheon) This alternate history tale imagines a world
           where the mathematicians Charles Babbage and Ada Lovelace are
           able to build a mechanical, steam?powered computer in the
           1840s.
6       26 HERE,  by Richard McGuire. (Pantheon) This book imagines what
           might have happened, or will happen, in the physical space of a
           living room from the dawn of time to the distant future.
7       52 SECONDS,  by Bryan Lee O'Malley. (Ballantine) A restaurant chef
           discovers how to go back and ?fix? previous events in her life,
           but each change brings unintended, and potentially dangerous,
           consequences.
8        2 NIMONA,  by Noelle Stevenson. (HarperCollins Publishers) Nimona
           is a shapeshifter and super villain in training who continually
           confounds her mentor with her unpredictability.
9       13 ROBERT MOSES: THE MASTER BUILDER OF NEW YORK CITY,  by Pierre
           Christin and Olivier Balez. (Nobrow Press) This biography
           chronicles the rise of Robert Moses, the urban planner who
           shaped New York City in the middle of the 20th century.
10      17 NATHAN HALE?S HAZARDOUS TALES: THE UNDERGROUND ABDUCTOR,  by
           Nathan Hale. (Abrams) Harriet Tubman?s escape from slavery is
           the latest subject to be covered in this nonfiction series.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (90%);
BESTSELLERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%);
NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%);
FOLKLORE (74%); RETAILERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (61%);
SLAVERY (60%)

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS511120
PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS451211 BOOK
STORES (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Childrens Young Adult E-Book: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 130 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Childrens Young
                Adult E-Book
This Last  On
Week Week List
1           1   PAPER TOWNS,  by John Green. (Dutton)
2           1   LOOKING FOR ALASKA,  by John Green. (Speak)
3           1   THE FAULT IN OUR STARS,  by John Green. (Dutton)
4           1   THE BOOK THIEF,  by Markus Zusak. (Knopf)
5           1   WE WERE LIARS,  by E. Lockhart. (Delacorte)

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS
(90%); BOOK SALES (88%); RETAILERS (72%)

PERSON: JOHN GREEN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 395 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback
           Nonfiction
This    On
Week  List
1       64 THE BOYS IN THE BOAT,  by Daniel James Brown. (Penguin) A group
           of American rowers pursued gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympic
           Games.
2      296 THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY,  by Erik Larson. (Vintage) A story
           of how an architect and a serial killer were linked by the
           World's Fair of 1893.
3       11 I AM MALALA,  by Malala Yousafzai with Christina Lamb. (Little,
           Brown) The Nobel Peace Prize-winner and teenage activist
           recounts her path to learning.
4      372 THE GLASS CASTLE,  by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner) The author
           recalls a bizarre childhood during which she was constantly on
           the move. ?
5*     200 OUTLIERS,  by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown) Why
           some people succeed ? it has to do with luck and opportunities
           as well as talent.
6       94 A WALK IN THE WOODS,  by Bill Bryson. (Broadway) Rediscovering
           America on the Appalachian Trail.
7       55 UNBROKEN,  by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic
           runner?s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese during
           World War II after his plane went down over the Pacific. A 2014
           movie.
8*     124 WILD,  by Cheryl Strayed. (Vintage) A woman?s account of the
           life-changing 1,100-mile solo hike she took along the Pacific
           Crest Trail in 1995; a 2014 movie.
9       98 THE NEW JIM CROW,  by Michelle Alexander. (New Press) A law
           professor takes aim at the ?war on drugs? and its impact on
           black men.
10       2 THE SHORT AND TRAGIC LIFE OF ROBERT PEACE,  by Jeff Hobbs.
           (Scribner) Life at Yale doesn't shelter a young man unable to
           escape criminality.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. DAVID AND GOLIATH,  by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown)

12. THINKING, FAST AND SLOW,  by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux)

13. THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS,  by Rebecca Skloot. (Broadway)

14. AMERICAN SNIPER,  by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice.
(Morrow/HarperCollins)

15. QUIET,  by Susan Cain. (Broadway)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%);
WRITERS (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); SUMMER
OLYMPICS (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); AWARDS &
PRIZES (72%); HIKING (69%); RUNNING (69%); WORLD WAR II (63%); DRUG POLICY
(61%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: MALALA YOUSAFZAI (75%)

STATE: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Childrens Young Adult Paperback: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 186 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Childrens Young
                Adult Paperback
This Last  On
Week Week List
1           1   PAPER TOWNS,  by John Green. (Speak)
2           1   ME AND EARL AND THE DYING GIRL,  by Jesse Andrews. (Abrams)
3           1   LOOKING FOR ALASKA,  by John Green. (Speak)
4           1   MISS PEREGRINE'S HOME FOR PECULIAR CHILDREN,  by Ransom Riggs.
                (Quirk)
5           1   THE BOOK THIEF,  by Markus Zusak. (Knopf)
6           1   THE ABSOLUTELY TRUE DIARY OF A PART-TIME INDIAN,  by Sherman
                Alexie and Ellen Forney. (Little, Brown)
7           1   AN ABUNDANCE OF KATHERINES,  by John Green. (Speak)
8           1   THE FAULT IN OUR STARS,  by John Green. (Penguin)
9           1   THE 5TH WAVE,  by Rick Yancey. (Putnam)
10          1   HOLLOW CITY,  by Ransom Riggs. (Quirk)

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (72%)

PERSON: JOHN GREEN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 446 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1          38   THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY,  by Erik Larson. (Vintage) The
                tale of a great architect (Daniel Hudson Burnham) and a serial
                killer (H. H. Holmes), who were linked by the Chicago World's
                Fair of 1893.
2       2  82   THE BOYS IN THE BOAT,  by Daniel James Brown. (Penguin) The
                University of Washington?s eight-oar crew and their quest for
                gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympics.
3       9  23   DEAD WAKE,  by Erik Larson. (Crown) The last voyage of the
                Lusitania, the passenger liner sunk by a German torpedo in
                1915; by the author of "The Devil in the White City."
4       4   9   MODERN ROMANCE,  by Aziz Ansari with Eric Klinenberg. (Penguin
                Press) The comedian enlists a sociologist to help him
                understand today?s dating scene.
5           1   YOU'RE NEVER WEIRD ON THE INTERNET (ALMOST),  by Felicia Day.
                (Touchstone) A memoir of rising to stardom in the web video
                world.
6       6   5   BETWEEN THE WORLD AND ME,  by Ta-Nehisi Coates. (Spiegel &
                Grau) A meditation on race in America as well as a personal
                story by the national correspondent of The Atlantic, framed as
                a letter to his teenage son.
7       7  15   THE WRIGHT BROTHERS,  by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster)
                The story of the bicycle mechanics from Ohio who ushered in the
                age of flight; by the author of ?1776? and ?The Greater
                Journey.?
8       1   2   PLUNDER AND DECEIT,  by Mark R. Levin. (Simon & Schuster)  The
                talk-radio host urges young Americans to resist the statist
                masterminds who, he says, are burdening them with debt,
                inferior education and illegal immigration.
9      10   8   DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE,  by Holly Madison. (Dey Street/Morrow)
                Life inside the Playboy Mansion, by a former bunny and
                girlfriend of Hugh Hefner.
10          3   BRINGING ADAM HOME,  by Les Standiford with Joe Matthews.
                (HarperCollins) The story of the 1981 murder-kidnapping,
                unsolved for more than a quarter-century, that led to the
                passing of the Missing Children Act.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. THE BILLION DOLLAR SPY,  by David E. Hoffman. (Doubleday)

12. WILD,  by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf)

13. BEING MORTAL,  by Atul Gawande. (Metropolitan/Holt)

14. NINE LIVES,  by Dan Baum. (Spiegel & Grau)

15. TEARS OF THE DESERT,  by Halima Bashir with Damien Lewis. (One
World/Ballantine)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS
(90%); WRITERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE
(78%); BOOK SALES (78%); MISSING PERSONS (76%); MURDER (74%); RETAILERS (73%);
CRUISES (73%); INTERNET VIDEO (71%); HOMICIDE (69%); OLYMPICS (67%); COURTSHIP &
DATING (65%); CHILDREN (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(50%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: AZIZ ANSARI (69%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (55%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Children's Picture Books: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 322 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Children's Picture
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1        3 WHAT PET SHOULD I GET?,  by Dr. Seuss. (Random House) A book
           not published during Theodor Geisel?s lifetime. (Ages 4 and up)
2      112 THE DAY THE CRAYONS QUIT,  by Drew Daywalt. Illustrated by
           Oliver Jeffers. (Philomel) Problems arise when Duncan?s crayons
           revolt. (Ages 3 to 7)
3       46 THE BOOK WITH NO PICTURES,  by B. J. Novak. (Dial) Silly songs
           and sound effects in a book without images. (Ages 4 to 8)
4      202 GOODNIGHT, GOODNIGHT, CONSTRUCTION SITE,  by Sherri Duskey
           Rinker and Tom Lichtenheld. (Chronicle) As the sun sets,
           hard-working trucks get ready for bed. (Ages 4 to 8)
5      205 PRESS HERE,  by Hervé Tullet. (Handprint/Chronicle) A whimsical
           dance of color and motion, at the touch of a finger. (Ages 4 to
           8)
6       82 DRAGONS LOVE TACOS,  by Adam Rubin. Illustrated by Daniel
           Salmieri. (Dial) What to serve your dragon-guests. (Ages 3 to
           5)
7       37 WAITING IS NOT EASY!,  by Mo Willems. (Hyperion) Impatient
           Gerald has to wait for Piggie?s promised surprise. (Ages 2 to
           7)
8       62 ROSIE REVERE, ENGINEER,  by Andrea Beaty. Illustrated by David
           Roberts. (Abrams) A young inventor learns to fail better. (Ages
           4 to 8)
9      109 PETE THE CAT: I LOVE MY WHITE SHOES,  by Eric Litwin.
           Illustrated by James Dean. (Harper/HarperCollins) Well-shod
           Pete has rainbows on his feet. (Ages 3 to 7)
10      10 I WILL TAKE A NAP!,  by Mo Willems. (Hyperion) Red-eyed Gerald
           needs some sleep, or is it Piggie who's due for a nap? (Ages 6
           to 8)

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); BOOK SALES (78%);
RETAILERS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 561 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Combined Print &
                E-Book Nonfiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1   2   PLUNDER AND DECEIT,  by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions) The
                talk-radio host urges young Americans to resist the statist
                masterminds who he says are burdening them with debt, inferior
                education and illegal immigration. ?
2       2   5   BETWEEN THE WORLD AND ME,  by Ta-Nehisi Coates. (Spiegel &
                Grau) A meditation on race in America as well as a personal
                story by the national correspondent of The Atlantic, framed as
                a letter to his teenage son.
3       3  65   THE BOYS IN THE BOAT,  by Daniel James Brown. (Penguin) The
                University of Washington?s eight-oar crew and their quest for
                gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympics.
4           8   THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY,  by Erik Larson. (Vintage) How an
                architect and a serial killer were linked by the Chicago
                World's Fair of 1893.
5           1   YOU'RE NEVER WEIRD ON THE INTERNET (ALMOST),  by Felicia Day.
                (Touchstone) A memoir of rising to stardom in the web video
                world.
6       5   9   MODERN ROMANCE,  by Aziz Ansari with Eric Klinenberg. (Penguin
                Press) The comedian enlists a sociologist to help him
                understand today?s dating scene.
7       7  23   DEAD WAKE,  by Erik Larson. (Crown) The last voyage of the
                Lusitania, the passenger liner sunk by a German torpedo in
                1915; by the author of ?The Devil in the White City.?
8       4  15   THE WRIGHT BROTHERS,  by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster)
                The story of the bicycle mechanics from Ohio who ushered in the
                age of flight.
9      11  43   BEING MORTAL,  by Atul Gawande. (Metropolitan/Holt) The surgeon
                and New Yorker writer considers how doctors fail patients at
                the end of life, and how they can do better.
10     10  26   I AM MALALA,  by Malala Yousafzai with Christina Lamb. (Little,
                Brown) The experience of the Pakistani girl who advocated for
                women?s education and was shot by the Taliban.
11      8   8   DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE,  by Holly Madison. (Dey Street) Life
                inside the Playboy Mansion, by a former bunny and girlfriend of
                Hugh Hefner.
12         45   THE GLASS CASTLE,  by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner) The author
                recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings
                were constantly moved from one bleak place to another. ?
13     12  51   OUTLIERS,  by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown) Why some people
                succeed; from the author of "Blink" and "The Tipping Point."
14     13  120  WILD,  by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf) A woman?s account of a
                life-changing 1,100-mile hike along the Pacific Crest Trail
                during the summer of 1995; a 2014 movie.
15     14  211  UNBROKEN,  by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic
                runner?s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in
                World War II; a 2014 movie.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. THE BILLION DOLLAR SPY,  by David E. Hoffman. (Doubleday)

17. MY FIGHT/YOUR FIGHT,  by Ronda Rousey with Maria Burns Ortiz. (Regan Arts)

18. A WALK IN THE WOODS,  by Bill Bryson. (Broadway)

19. BARBARIAN DAYS,  by William Finnegan. (Penguin Press)

20. SICK IN THE HEAD,  by Judd Apatow. (Random House)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS
(90%); WRITERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE
(78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); INTERNET
VIDEO (71%); CRUISES (71%); OLYMPICS (65%); MURDER (64%); HOMICIDE (64%);
COURTSHIP & DATING (63%); TALIBAN (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (53%); IMMIGRATION
(53%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: MALALA YOUSAFZAI (79%); AZIZ ANSARI (68%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Best Sellers: Manga: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 434 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Manga
This    On
Week  List
1        1 MONSTER MUSUME, VOL. 7,  by Okayado. (Seven Seas Entertainment)
           A teenager signs up to help mythical creatures assimilate into
           society. How will he contend being roommates with a sexy snake
           woman, an alluring centaur girl and a harpy who likes to flirt?
2        2 NARUTO, VOL. 71,  by Masashi Kishimoto. (VIZ Media) As this
           series barrels toward its conclusion, Naruto, Sasuke and Sakura
           fight the newly?activated Infinite Tsukuyomi.
3        2 MY HERO ACADEMIA, VOL. 1,  by Kouhei Horikoshi. (VIZ Media) In
           a world full of of people who can develop super powers, Izuku
           Midoriya is just a ?normal? teenager. Will a chance encounter
           with a superhero change his fate? Most likely!
4        2 ONE PIECE, VOL. 75,  by Eiichiro Oda. (VIZ Media) The people of
           Dressrosa have been turned into toys! Can Usopp and the others
           find a cure?
5        9 TOKYO GHOUL, VOL. 1,  by Sui Ishida. (VIZ Media) Ken Kaneki is
           attacked by a monster, but somehow survives the encounter and
           becomes the first half-human, half-ghoul hybrid.
6        1 ASSASSINATION CLASSROOM, VOL. 5,  by Yusei Matsui. (VIZ Media)
           The students of class 3?E have only one assignment: kill their
           teacher, a supremely powerful being.
7        2 JOJO'S BIZARRE ADVENTURE: PHANTOM BLOOD, VOL. 3,  by Hirohiko
           Araki. (VIZ Media) The beginning of the globe?spanning and
           multigenerational exploits of the Joestar family are translated
           into English for the first time.
8        1 FOOD WARS! VOL. 7,  by Yuto Tsukuda and Shun Saeki. (VIZ Media)
           The Fall Classic, the Totsuki Institute?s annual culinary
           competition, is here and the participants have been selected.
           Who will be crowned the winner?
9        1 DRAGONAR ACADEMY, VOL. 7,  by Shiki Mizuchi and Ran. (Seven
           Seas Entertainment) Ash Blake attends the Ansarivan Dragonar
           Academy, where each student rides their own dragon. But Ash?s
           dragon, Eco, is different and can transform into a human girl.
10       4 AKAME GA KILL!, VOL. 3,  by Takahiro and Tetsuya Tashiro. (Yen
           Press) Tatsumi hopes to earn money for his village by working
           in the Capital, but that won?t be easy in a place where
           corruption is rampant and a league of assassins are the only
           good guys.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (90%); BOOK
SALES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); RETAILERS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 523 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Hardcover
                Nonfiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1   2   PLUNDER AND DECEIT,  by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions) The
                talk-radio host urges young Americans to resist the statist
                masterminds who, he says, are burdening them with debt and
                inferior education. ?
2       2   5   BETWEEN THE WORLD AND ME,  by Ta-Nehisi Coates. (Spiegel &
                Grau) A meditation on race in America as well as a personal
                story  by the national correspondent of The Atlantic, framed as
                a letter to his teenage son.
3           1   YOU'RE NEVER WEIRD ON THE INTERNET (ALMOST),  by Felicia Day.
                (Touchstone) A memoir of rising to stardom in the web video
                world.
4       3  15   THE WRIGHT BROTHERS,  by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster)
                The story of the bicycle mechanics from Ohio who ushered in the
                age of flight.
5       4   9   MODERN ROMANCE,  by Aziz Ansari with Eric Klinenberg. (Penguin
                Press) The comedian enlists a sociologist to help him
                understand today?s dating scene.
6       6  45   BEING MORTAL,  by Atul Gawande. (Metropolitan/Holt) The surgeon
                and New Yorker writer considers how doctors fail patients at
                the end of life and how they can do better.
7       7  23   DEAD WAKE,  by Erik Larson. (Crown) The last voyage of the
                Lusitania, the passenger liner sunk by a German torpedo in
                1915.
8      12   4   BARBARIAN DAYS,  by William Finnegan. (Penguin Press) A surfing
                chronicle and memoir by a New Yorker writer.
9       5   2   MY FIGHT/YOUR FIGHT,  by Ronda Rousey with Maria Burns Ortiz.
                (Regan Arts) The U.F.C. women's bantamweight champion's
                struggles to succeed.
10      8   8   DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE,  by Holly Madison. (Dey Street/Morrow)
                Life inside the Playboy Mansion, by a former bunny and
                girlfriend of Hugh Hefner.
11      9  18   THE ROAD TO CHARACTER,  by David Brooks. (Random House) The
                Times columnist extols personal virtues like kindness and
                honesty in a materialistic age.
12          5   A FULL LIFE,  by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster) At 90, the
                39th president (and Nobel Prize winner) reflects on his private
                and public life.
13     13   2   VOICES IN THE OCEAN,  by Susan Casey. (Doubleday) The study of
                dolphins: research, cultural significance, threats .
14     14  11   ELON MUSK,  by Ashlee Vance. (Ecco/HarperCollins) Musk?s life
                from his difficult South African childhood to his involvement
                in Internet start-ups like SpaceX.
15     11   7   THE OREGON TRAIL,  by Rinker Buck. (Simon & Schuster) The
                author and his brother travel 2,000 miles by mule and wagon
                from Missouri to Oregon.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. THE BILLION DOLLAR SPY,  by David E. Hoffman. ( Doubleday)

17. SICK IN THE HEAD,  by Judd Apatow. (Random House)

18. ADIOS, AMERICA!,  by Ann Coulter. (Regnery)

19. YES PLEASE,  by Amy Poehler. (Dey Street/Morrow)

20. WHAT IF?,  by Randall Munroe. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); CELEBRITIES
(74%); SURFING (73%); RETAILERS (73%); INTERNET VIDEO (71%); MARINE BIOLOGY
(69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); MAMMALOGY (64%); COURTSHIP &
DATING (64%); MARINE MAMMALS (61%); OCEANOGRAPHY (61%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%);
AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); ZOOLOGY (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: AZIZ ANSARI (69%); ELON MUSK (65%); JIMMY CARTER (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Hardcover Fiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 558 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Hardcover Fiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1   5   GO SET A WATCHMAN,  by Harper Lee. (Harper) In the mid-1950s, a
                grown-up Jean Louise Finch returns home to find that her adored
                father is not as perfect as she believed.
2       2  31   THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN,  by Paula Hawkins. (Riverhead) A
                psychological thriller set in the environs of London.
3       4  67   ALL THE LIGHT WE CANNOT SEE,  by Anthony Doerr. (Scribner) The
                lives of a blind French girl and a gadget-obsessed German boy
                before and during World War II; the winner of the 2015 Pulitzer
                Prize.
4       3   2   ALERT,  by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little,
                Brown) Detective Michael Bennett and the F.B.I.'s Emily Parker
                must save New York City from a deadly threat.
5           1   SILVER LININGS,  by Debbie Macomber. (Ballantine) Jo Marie,
                keeper of the Rose Harbor Inn, and two guests deal with trouble
                in relationships.
6       5   3   CIRCLING THE SUN,  by Paula McLain. (Ballantine) A novel by the
                author of "The Paris Wife" about Beryl Markham, a horse trainer
                and aviatrix who was raised in Kenya.
7*          1   WHO DO YOU LOVE,  by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria) Andy and Rachel
                meet as children, then come together and separate repeatedly
                over the years.
8       6  28   THE NIGHTINGALE,  by Kristin Hannah. (St. Martin's) Two sisters
                in World War II France: one struggling to survive in the
                countryside, the other joining the Resistance in Paris.
9       7  14   LUCKIEST GIRL ALIVE,  by Jessica Knoll. (Simon & Schuster) The
                life of a successful New York magazine writer is shaken when
                secrets from her past are revealed.
10      9   7   THE ENGLISH SPY,  by Daniel Silva. (Harper) Gabriel Allon helps
                British intelligence track down the killer of a beautiful
                former member of the royal family.
11          1   IN A DARK, DARK WOOD,  by Ruth Ware. (Scout Press) A crime
                writer attends a party in a cabin in the woods and is pulled
                back into the past, with frightening results.
12*    11   2   THE MARRIAGE OF OPPOSITES,  by Alice Hoffman. (Simon &
                Schuster) The fictionalized life of Rachel Pomié, a
                19th-century Jewish woman on the island of St. Thomas, whose
                son Camille Pissaro became a leading Impressionist painter.
13          1   DEVIL'S BRIDGE,  by Linda Fairstein. (Dutton) In the 17th
                Alexandra Cooper thriller, Coop is kidnapped and the N.Y.P.D.
                homicide detective Mike Chapman searches for her.
14          1   FOOL'S QUEST,  by Robin Hobb. (Del Rey)  In the second volume
                of the ?Fitz and the Fool? trilogy, Fitz draws on ancient magic
                to save his friend, the Fool.
15     12   6   CODE OF CONDUCT,  by Brad Thor. (Emily Bestler/Atria) The
                counterterrorism operative Scot Harvath undertakes a deadly
                assignment set in motion by a leaked video.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. THE LITTLE PARIS BOOKSHOP,  by Nina George. (Crown)

17. BADLANDS,  by C. J. Box. (Minotaur)

18. WIND/PINBALL,  by Haruki Murakami. (Knopf)

19. ARMADA,  by Ernest Cline. (Crown)

20. KITCHENS OF THE GREAT MIDWEST,  by J. Ryan Stradal. (Pamela Dorman/Viking)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%);
WRITERS (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(78%); BOOK SALES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); RETAILERS (73%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); ESPIONAGE (69%);
MARRIAGE (68%); FAMILY (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (87%); UNITED STATES (74%); KENYA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Advice and How-To: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 408 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Advice and How-To
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1  42   THE LIFE-CHANGING MAGIC OF TIDYING UP,  by Marie Kondo. (Ten
                Speed) A guide to decluttering by discarding your expendable
                objects all at once and taking charge of your space.
2       3  116  THE FIVE LOVE LANGUAGES,  by Gary Chapman. (Northfield) A guide
                to communicating love in a way a spouse will understand ? with
                quality time, affirmative words, gifts, acts of service and
                physical touch.
3       2   4   SELP-HELF,  by Miranda Sings. (Gallery Books) A comedian and
                YouTube sensation offers her off-the-cuff tips on love, career
                and "self-isteam."
4          12   BRAIN MAKER,  by David Perlmutter with Kristin Loberg. (Little,
                Brown) A neurologist links brain health to the population of
                microbes inhabiting our bodies.
5*      5  17   THE WHOLE30,  by Melissa Hartwig and Dallas Hartwig. (Houghton
                Mifflin Harcourt) An overview of a 30-day guide to better
                health and weight loss. ?
6       4   2   DESTINY,  by T. D. Jakes. (Faith Words) An evangelist asserts
                that finding one's destiny involves defining an inevitably
                self-determined role. ?
7           8   THE BEST YES,  by Lysa TerKeurst. (Nelson Books/Thomas Nelson)
                A spirituality-based guide to managing the multiple demands on
                busy lives.
8          39   THE FAST METABOLISM DIET,  by Haylie Pomroy with Eve Adamson.
                (Harmony) A program to lose weight by rotating food groups.
9       9  55   THE GIFTS OF IMPERFECTION,  by Brene Brown. (Hazelden)
                Embracing who you are, not who you should be.
10*     8  23   GET WHAT'S YOURS,  by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, Philip Moeller and
                Paul Solman. (Simon & Schuster) A guide to deciding when to
                claim Social Security benefits and to getting all you're
                eligible for when you do.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. THUG KITCHEN,  by the staff of Thug Kitchen. (Rodale)

12. WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING,  by Heidi Murkoff and Sharon Mazel.
(Workman)

13. YOU ARE A BADASS,  by Jen Sincero. (Running Press)

14. 10-DAY GREEN SMOOTHIE CLEANSE,  by JJ Smith. (Atria)

15. DARING GREATLY,  by Brene Brown. (Avery)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); DIETING (86%); BOOK SALES (78%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); NEUROSCIENCE
(71%); VIRAL VIDEOS (66%); RELIGION (64%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Best Sellers: Paperback Graphic Books: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 401 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback Graphic
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1       54 PERSEPOLIS,  by Marjane Satrapi. (Pantheon) The author?s life
           in Iran during its 1979 revolution and its war with Iraq.
2      166 SMILE,  by Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Raina experiences
           braces, an earthquake, boy troubles, frenemies and other
           plagues of the sixth grade.
3      107 DRAMA,  by Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Middle-school drama
           becomes much more intense when Callie becomes the stage manager
           for a production of "Moon Over Mississippi."
4       52 SISTERS,  by Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Raina is stuck in
           the back seat between her younger brother and sister for a
           weeklong road trip in this family memoir. Will such close
           quarters force the siblings to finally get along?
5       35 FUN HOME,  by Alison Bechdel. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt) In
           her first memoir, the author chronicles the life and death of
           her father, a closeted gay man and funeral director.
6        3 THE BABY-SITTERS CLUB GRAPHIX: THE TRUTH ABOUT STACEY,  by Ann
           M. Martin and Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Stacey struggles
           with being the new kid in town in this all?color adaptation of
           the third book in the popular series.
7       15 THE BABY?SITTERS CLUB GRAPHIX: KRISTY'S GREAT IDEA,  by Ann M.
           Martin and Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Four best friends
           start a babysitting business in this all-color adaptation of
           the first book in the popular series.
8       54 MAUS: A SURVIVOR?S TALE, VOL. 1,  by Art Spiegelman. (Pantheon)
           The author tells the story of his father, a Holocaust survivor,
           in a critically-acclaimed tale where Jewish people are mice and
           Germans are cats.
9        2 FABLES, VOL. 22,  by Bill Willingham and Mark Buckingham. (DC
           Comics) ...And they lived happily ever after. Or did they?
10      37 EL DEAFO,  by Cece Bell. (Amulet) A young girl experiences
           hearing loss and receives the Phonic Ear, a bulky hearing aid
           that comes with a mischievous benefit: She can hear her teacher
           no matter where she goes in school.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC
NOVEL PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES
(90%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%);
HOLOCAUST (69%); HEARING AIDS (60%); DEAFNESS (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%)

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS511120
PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Childrens Middle Grade Hardcover: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 286 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Childrens Middle
                Grade Hardcover
This Last  On
Week Week List
1           1   WONDER,  by R. J. Palacio. (Knopf) A boy with a facial
                deformity enters a mainstream school.
2           1   HITLER'S LAST DAYS,  by Bill O'Reilly. (Holt) An account of the
                collapse of the Third Reich and the death of the Nazi leader.
3           1   SERAFINA AND THE BLACK CLOAK,  by Robert Beatty.
                (Disney-Hyperion) In 1899, children go missing at a sumptuous
                Vanderbilt estate.
4           1   BROWN GIRL DREAMING,  by Jacqueline Woodson. (Nancy Paulsen) A
                memoir in verse; a 2014 National Book Award winner.
5           1   I AM MALALA,  by Malala Yousafzai with Christina Lamb. (Little,
                Brown) A girl risks her life for education.
6           1   THE CROSSOVER,  by Kwame Alexander. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
                A hoops prodigy?s family story, told in verse.
7           1   RAD AMERICAN WOMEN A-Z,  by Kate Schatz. Illustrated by Miriam
                Klein Stahl. (City Lights) History-shaping rebels, trailblazers
                and visionaries.
8           1   JURASSIC WORLD,  by David Lewman. (Random House) More
                prehistoric havoc; the junior novelization.
9           1   FUZZY MUD,  by Louis Sachar. (Delacorte) Trying to avoid a
                bully, two friends find much bigger trouble.
10          1   FISH IN A TREE,  by Lynda Mullaly Hunt. (Nancy Paulsen) A new
                teacher helps a disruptive girl overcome her dyslexia.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%);
RETAILERS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); DYSLEXIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: E-Book Fiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 407 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: E-Book Fiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       2  31   THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN,  by Paula Hawkins. (Riverhead) A
                psychological thriller set in the environs of London is full of
                complications and betrayals.
2           1   SILVER LININGS,  by Debbie Macomber. (Ballantine) Joe Marie,
                keeper of the Rose Harbor Inn, and two guests deal with trouble
                in relationships.
3           1   WHO DO YOU LOVE,  by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria) Andy and Rachel
                meet as children, then come together and separate repeatedly
                over the years.
4           3   FLESH AND BLOOD,  by Patricia Cornwell. (Morrow/HarperCollins)
                As the Boston Marathon trial approaches, Dr. Kay Scarpetta, the
                chief medical examiner for the state of Massachusetts, pursues
                a sniper who may be a vigilante; the 22nd Scarpetta novel.
5           1   STATE OF FEAR,  by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins) Reverse
                eco-terrorists create natural disasters to convince the public
                that global warming is real. Originally published in 2004.
6       1   2   ALERT,  by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little,
                Brown) Detective Michael Bennett and the F.B.I.?s Emily Parker
                must save New York City from a deadly threat.
7       4   9   GREY,  by E. L. James. (Vintage) A sequel told from Christian?s
                point of view.
8       8  23   THE NIGHTINGALE,  by Kristin Hannah. (St. Martin's) Two sisters
                in World War II France: one struggling to survive in the
                countryside, the other  joining the Resistance in Paris.
9       5   5   GO SET A WATCHMAN,  by Harper Lee. (Harper)  In the mid-1950s,
                a grown-up Jean Louise Finch returns to Maycomb and realizes
                that her adored father is a racist.
10      7   9   THE MARTIAN,  by Andy Weir. (Crown) After being left behind by
                his crew, an astronaut embarks on a dogged quest to stay alive.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. ACCUSED,  by Lisa Scottoline. (St. Martin's)

12. THE ARRANGEMENT 20,  by H. M. Ward. (Laree Bailey)

13. ALL THE LIGHT WE CANNOT SEE,  by Anthony Doerr. (Scribner)

14. FOURTH DEBT,  by Pepper Winters. (Pepper Winters)

15. DEVIL'S BRIDGE,  by Linda Fairstein. (Dutton)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING
(90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE
LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ECOTERRORISM (70%); TRAINS
(70%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA
(65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); TERRORISM (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%);
NATURAL DISASTERS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL L BENNETT (69%); JAMES PATTERSON (58%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARS (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Fiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 549 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Combined Print &
                E-Book Fiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       2   5   GO SET A WATCHMAN,  by Harper Lee. (Harper)  In the mid-1950s,
                a grown-up Jean Louise Finch returns to Maycomb and realizes
                that her adored father is a racist.
2       3  31   THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN,  by Paula Hawkins. (Riverhead) A
                psychological thriller set in the environs of London is full of
                complications and betrayals.
3           1   SILVER LININGS,  by Debbie Macomber. (Ballantine) Jo Marie,
                keeper of the Rose Harbor Inn, and two guests deal with trouble
                in relationships.
4           1   WHO DO YOU LOVE,  by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria) Andy and Rachel
                meet as children, then come together and separate repeatedly
                over the years.
5       4   9   GREY,  by E. L. James. (Vintage) A sequel, told from
                Christian?s point of view, revisits the tortured romance
                between the controlling billionaire and the unassuming Ana.
6       1   2   ALERT,  by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little,
                Brown) Detective Michael Bennett and the F.B.I.?s Emily Parker
                must save New York City from a deadly threat.
7       6  48   ALL THE LIGHT WE CANNOT SEE,  by Anthony Doerr. (Scribner) The
                lives of a blind French girl and a gadget-obsessed German boy
                before and during World War II; the winner of the 2015 Pulitzer
                Prize.
8       5  12   THE MARTIAN,  by Andy Weir. (Crown) Abandoned by his crew, an
                astronaut embarks on a dogged quest to stay alive.
9           5   FLESH AND BLOOD,  by Patricia Cornwell. (Morrow/HarperCollins)
                Dr. Kay Scarpetta pursues a sniper who may be a vigilante; the
                22nd Scarpetta novel.
10          1   STATE OF FEAR,  by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins) Reverse
                eco-terrorists create natural disasters to convince the public
                that global warming is real. Originally published in 2004.
11      9  28   THE NIGHTINGALE,  by Kristin Hannah. (St. Martin's) Two sisters
                are separated in World War II France: one in the countryside,
                the other in Paris.
12     12   3   CIRCLING THE SUN,  by Paula Mclain. (Ballantine) A novel by the
                author of ?The Paris Wife? about Beryl Markham, a horse trainer
                and aviatrix raised in Kenya.
13          1   DEVIL'S BRIDGE,  by Linda Fairstein. (Dutton/Penguin Publishing
                Group) In her 17th outing, prosecutor Alexandra Cooper
                disappears, and her colleague, an N.Y.P.D. detective, is
                assigned the task of finding her.
14     11   6   CODE OF CONDUCT,  by Brad Thor. (Emily Bestler/Atria) The
                counterterrorism operative Scot Harvath undertakes a deadly
                assignment set in motion by a leaked video.
15     10  14   LUCKIEST GIRL ALIVE,  by Jessica Knoll. (Simon & Schuster) The
                life of a successful magazine writer is shaken when secrets
                from her past are revealed in a documentary.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. DARK PLACES,  by Gillian Flynn. (Broadway)

17. FOOL'S QUEST,  by Robin Hobb. (Del Rey)

18. ACCUSED,  by Lisa Scottoline. (St. Martin's)

19. THE ARRANGEMENT 20,  by H. M. Ward. (Laree Bailey)

20. FOURTH DEBT,  by Pepper Winters. (Pepper Winters)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING
(90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); PUBLISHING (78%);
WRITERS (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); BOOK
PUBLISHING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); RACISM &
XENOPHOBIA (68%); TRAINS (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); ECOTERRORISM (65%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); WORLD WAR II (62%); TERRORISM (50%); NATURAL
DISASTERS (50%)

COMPANY: PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS511130 BOOK
PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); MARS (67%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (86%); UNITED STATES (75%); KENYA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Childrens Young Adult Hardcover: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 296 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Childrens Young
                Adult Hardcover
This Last  On
Week Week List
1           1   ELEANOR AND PARK,  by Rainbow Rowell. (St. Martin's Griffin)
                The world opposes the love of two outcast teenagers.
2           1   REAWAKENED,  by Colleen Houck. (Delacorte) A teenager helps a
                resurrected Egyptian prince battle an evil god.
3           1   RED QUEEN,  by Victoria Aveyard. (HarperTeen) A girl with a
                special power lives in a kingdom divided between an underclass
                with red blood and an elite with silver.
4           1   WE ALL LOOKED UP,  by Tommy Wallach. (Simon & Schuster) An
                asteroid disrupts the lives of a group of high school seniors.
5           1   WE WERE LIARS,  by E. Lockhart. (Delacorte) Four friends decamp
                to a private island off Martha's Vineyard.
6           1   P. S. I STILL LOVE YOU,  by Jenny Han. (Simon & Schuster) A
                girl wonders if she can be in love with two boys at once.
7           1   ALL THE BRIGHT PLACES,  by Jennifer Niven. (Knopf) An outcast
                helps a classmate recover from her sister?s death.
8           1   FANGIRL,  by Rainbow Rowell. (St. Martin's Griffin) Cath, a
                writer of popular fan fiction, struggles during her freshman
                year at college.
9           1   SAINT ANYTHING,  by Sarah Dessen. (Viking) A girl meets a
                nurturing family after her brother goes to jail.
10          1   THE INFINITE SEA,  by Rick Yancey. (Putnam) Companions face a
                harsh choice in the follow-up to ?The 5th Wave.?

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ADULTS (90%); BOOK SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%);
ADOLESCENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); RETAILERS
(73%); FICTION LITERATURE (73%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Childrens Middle Grade Paperback: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 208 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Childrens Middle
                Grade Paperback
This Last  On
Week Week List
1           1   A LONG WALK TO WATER,  by Linda Sue Park. (Houghton Mifflin
                Harcourt)
2           1   MAX,  by Boaz Yakin and Sheldon Lettich. (HarperCollins)
3           1   THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN,  by Katherine Applegate. (HarperCollins)
4           1   COUNTING BY 7s,  by Holly Goldberg Sloan. (Puffin)
5           1   OUT OF MY MIND,  by Sharon M. Draper. (Atheneum)
6           1   THE CARE AND KEEPING OF YOU,  by Valorie Schaefer. Illustrated
                by Josee Masse.. (American Girl)
7           1   THE FINISHER,  by David Baldacci. (Scholastic)
8           1   INSIDE OUT AND BACK AGAIN,  by Thanhha Lai. (HarperCollins)
9           1   THE PRINCESS IN BLACK,  by Shannon Hale and Dean Hale.
                Illustrated by LeUyen Pham.. (Candlewick)
10          1   ESCAPE FROM MR. LEMONCELLO'S LIBRARY,  by Chris Grabenstein.
                (Yearling)

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Mass-Market Fiction: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 403 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback
           Mass-Market Fiction
This    On
Week  List
1        3 MEAN STREAK,  by Sandra Brown. (Grand Central) A doctor,
           presumed dead, fights for her life in the outreaches and
           wonders which madman she's escaping from.
2        3 NEVER DIE ALONE,  by Lisa Jackson. (Zebra) A ritualistic killer
           who claims twins on their 21st birthday may be on the loose
           again.
3        3 UNLUCKY 13,  by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Grand
           Central) The Women's Murder Club faces its next case, a
           homicidal intern bent on revenge.
4        2 OBSESSION IN DEATH,  by J. D. Robb. (Berkley) A highly
           successful profiler, an object of obsession along with her
           billionaire husband, becomes the target of a potential quarry
5*       4 LOVE LETTERS,  by Debbie Macomber. (Ballantine) An innkeeper
           insists her handyman is just a friend, but few in Cedar Cove
           believe her.
6        7 FLESH AND BLOOD,  by Patricia Cornwell. (Morrow) Kay Scarpetta
           finds herself in pursuit of a serial sniper in the series's
           22nd installment.
7        3 THRILL ME,  by Susan Mallery. (Harlequin) A decade's distance
           does little to mollify the passion between a promoter and an
           extreme-sports enthusiast.
8*       6 A PERFECT LIFE,  by Danielle Steel. (Dell) A television
           anchor's on-air poise belies her unsettled life.
9       18 ZOO,  by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Vision) After
           witnessing a coordinated lion ambush in Africa, a young
           biologist races to warn world leaders about the reasons for
           escalating animal attacks on cities.
10       1 THE MATCHMAKER,  by Elin Hilderbrand. (Little, Brown) A
           Nantucketer finds her matchmaking skills tested on herself when
           her high school boyfriend arrives on the island.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. IRISH HEARTS,  by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette)

12. A GAME OF THRONES,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam)

13. TOP SECRET,  by W. E. B. Griffin and William E. Butterworth IV. (Jove)

14. ENDER'S GAME,  by Orson Scott Card. (Tor)

15. THE 6TH EXTINCTION,  by James Rollins. (Morrow/HarperCollins)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (78%); MURDER (74%);
RETAILERS (73%); MAMMALS (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (61%); EXTREME SPORTS (50%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (78%)

COUNTRY: AFRICA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Childrens Middle Grade E-Book: Sunday, August 30th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 141 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the August 30, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending August
15, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Childrens Middle
                Grade E-Book
This Last  On
Week Week List
1           1   WONDER,  by R. J. Palacio. (Knopf)
2           1   SERAFINA AND THE BLACK CLOAK,  by Robert Beatty.
                (Disney-Hyperion)
3           1   HITLER'S LAST DAYS,  by Bill O'Reilly. (Holt)
4           1   THE FINISHER,  by David Baldacci. (Scholastic Press)
5           1   THE GRAVEYARD BOOK,  by Neil Gaiman. Illustrated by Dave
                McKean. (HarperCollins)

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS
(90%); BOOK SALES (88%); RETAILERS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Zombie Factories That Stalk China's Economy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHUMAN

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1830 words


Miao Leijie loses money on each ton of cement his company produces. But stopping
production is not an option.

When the plant opened in 2011 to supply the real estate and infrastructure
industries in the northern Chinese city of Changzhi, the company raised most of
the initial money from banks. Now, Mr. Miao, the factory's general director,
needs to keep churning out cement simply so the company can pay the interest on
its loans.

It will be tough for the business, Lucheng Zhuoyue Cement Plant, to get out of
the hole. Customers and investments are drying up, and the company is borrowing
even more money to stay afloat.

''If we ceased production, the losses would be crushing,'' Mr. Miao said, as he
chain-smoked in the company's quiet, spartan office. ''We are working for the
bank.''

Changzhi and its environs are littered with half-dead cement factories and
silent, mothballed plants, an eerie backdrop to the struggling Chinese economy.

Like many industrial cities across China, Changzhi, which expanded aggressively
during the country's long investment boom, has too many factories and too little
demand. That excess capacity, many economists indicate, will have to be
eliminated for the Chinese economy to return to healthy growth.

But rather than shut down, Lucheng Zhuoyue and other Changzhi companies are
limping along in a kind of march of the undead.

To protect jobs and plants, the government and its state-owned banks sometimes
keep money-losing businesses on life support by rolling over or restructuring
loans, providing fresh credit or offering other aid. While this may seem like an
odd business tactic, it is part of a broader strategy to help maintain social
stability, a major goal of China's leadership. Authorities in China's provinces
and cities also back struggling factories just because they are deemed important
to the local economy.

Similar strategies have been tried before, with little success. In Japan, such
businesses, known as ''zombie companies,'' are blamed for contributing to that
country's two decades of economic stagnation.

As China allows its own ''zombies'' to stalk the economy, the situation is
clouding the country's outlook, making it difficult to predict where growth is
headed. If the leadership doesn't address the underlying problem, the economic
weakness could be prolonged.

Concerns have already been rising that China's slowdown is worsening and its
problems are becoming harder to overcome. Such fears helped ignite a dramatic
sell-off on stock markets around the world. Shares on the Shanghai stock
exchange have tumbled by more than third since the June high.

''Global investors have now come to realize that China's travails are beginning
to affect everyone,'' said Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economic research
at HSBC in Hong Kong.

A Threat to Prosperity

Far from the sparkle of Shanghai or the export zones of Shenzhen, Changzhi is a
modest city of three million people who live in low-rise apartment complexes and
work in boxy factory compounds. The local economy depends on steel manufacturing
and other heavy industries that girded the country's decades-long era of high
growth. As the property market grew and the government plowed money into roads
and other infrastructure, cement factories sprouted on the city's outskirts to
capitalize on the bonanza, creating hundreds of well-paying jobs. In recent
years, the busy local shops and crammed fast-food restaurants along Changzhi's
narrow downtown streets bustled with new prosperity.

But the country's economy is slowing down, threatening that wealth. Gross
domestic product expanded 7 percent in the second quarter of 2015. While that
would be a stellar performance by the standards of most countries, it is the
slowest pace for China in a quarter-century.

Some industries are plummeting, wreaking havoc in less economically diverse
cities and towns. Empty apartments built during the boom are now weighing down
the property sector. Businessmen in Changzhi complain that construction projects
supported by the local government have also been scaled back.

As a result, Changzhi's cement plants are saddled by excess capacity. Companies
in the province can produce three times as much cement as what was actually
needed in 2014, according to the Shanxi Provincial Association of Building
Material Industries. Two-thirds of them lost money in that year.

Such conditions have turned once promising companies into zombies. While trucks
are still parked outside the sprawling industrial compound of Changzhi's Huatai
Cement Clinker Company, there are far fewer than just a couple of years ago, and
they have less to haul. The money-losing company has produced a mere 200,000
metric tons of cement this year, even though it is able to make one million.

As a state-owned enterprise, Huatai has been kept running with the help of
special assistance. Huatai gets coal on credit and access to cheap loans from
its parent company, which is owned by the provincial government. That has
allowed management to keep all its 300 workers on the payroll -- the company's
top priority. ''Our employees need to eat, they need to live,'' said one
manager, who declined to give his name.

Such measures may help sustain employment, but they also delay the much needed
overhaul of Chinese industry. A study of China's labor market by the
International Monetary Fund released in July noted that state-owned enterprises
tended to keep workers that they did not need. From an economic perspective, it
would be better for such businesses to downsize or even close, releasing their
trained staff to work at companies or in sectors with stronger prospects. That
would shift resources away from less productive parts of the economy, helping
get growth back on track.

Without such a shift, the economy could suffer in the future. Raphael Lam,
deputy resident representative at the I.M.F. in Beijing, says Chinese policy
makers should move more forcefully to enact pro-market reforms and allow
state-owned enterprises to restructure. If not, he says, ''Over the long term,
there would be an increasing likelihood of a sharper slowdown.''

'Eternal, Unpaid Vacation'

The situation is also complicating matters for workers not lucky enough to keep
their jobs. Though unemployment has remained low nationally, workers in troubled
Changzhi complain that good jobs are hard to find.

At the Changzhi Cement Group, where the only sound is a barking dog, a former
company electrician, Zhao Liwei, 43, watches TV inside a decrepit room for
janitors at the compound's entrance. Two years ago, as production at the
state-owned plant ground to a halt, her paychecks stopped coming. Most employees
were left to fend for themselves.

Since the factory was never formally shuttered, they have not received severance
payments or other compensation, Ms. Zhao said. Though a private company took on
a handful of employees to produce cement in a portion of the plant's facilities
in August, the work is only temporary.

Ms. Zhao has not worked at all. The only jobs in the area, she says, are
sweeping floors and waiting tables, for as little as 500 renminbi, or $78, a
month. She earned twice that working at the factory. ''We were promised an iron
rice bowl'' -- the Chinese term for lifetime employment -- she said. But now
''it is like we've been left on an eternal, unpaid vacation.''

Some of these idled workers have faced biting hardship. Sitting outside a nearby
deteriorating residential complex, Du Jianping, 45, says that she has to rely on
handouts from her parents to put food on the table for her 12-year-old daughter.
She and her husband lost their jobs at the Changzhi Cement Group, and ever
since, Ms. Du has been earning a pittance selling women's clothes and children's
toys at a stall outside a train station.

She feels trapped, fearing she would be unable to get better work elsewhere.
''We are too old to find jobs in the cities,'' she said. ''I hope the government
could help lift up the cement industry so that it can recover.''

Beijing is sensitive to such pleas. Fearing that joblessness could lead to
social instability, the government has made maintaining employment a primary
goal of its economic policy. Premier Li Keqiang said during a news conference
last year that the lowest growth rate acceptable to the regime ''needs to ensure
fairly full employment and realize reasonable increase of people's income.''

That helps explain why Beijing is taking stronger action to prop up the economy.
On Aug. 25, the central bank cut its benchmark interest rate for the fifth time
since November. Almost two weeks earlier, it suddenly devalued the renminbi,
which some analysts see as an attempt to lift China's sagging exports by making
them cheaper in international markets.

The government is also planning to use state banks to finance another round of
infrastructure spending aimed at aiding beleaguered industries like cement.
Managers in Changzhi argue that the authorities should be doing even more to
help, by setting a minimum price for cement or supporting local construction
projects.

Still, such steps may do little more than keep zombie companies alive -- to the
detriment of the overall economy. By pumping up growth with fresh credit and
stimulus, the government might temporarily revive some factories, but also
exacerbate the economy's problems of excess capacity and high debt.

The consulting firm IHS Global Insight estimates that debt relative to China's
output will reach 254 percent in 2015, nearly double the level of 2008. Such
debt levels can pose substantial risks to an economy if borrowers are unable to
repay them and a wave of defaults follows. ''The size of debt only
accumulates,'' said Grace Wu, a senior director at the rating agency Fitch in
Hong Kong. ''That doesn't help with the underlying economy. It doesn't help
create jobs.''

Over the long term, Chinese policy makers are trying to decrease the economy's
dependence on excessive investment for growth and allow household consumption to
play a bigger role. That means the factories in many heavy industries, like
cement, may never run again at full tilt.

Wang Xiaohu has not completely given up hope. Over the years, Mr. Wang, a
40-year-old businessman, put 20 million renminbi, or $3.1 million, into Changzhi
Ruili Building Materials Ltd., which can produce 300,000 metric tons of cement
annually. But now the factory site is watched over by a lone, elderly security
guard in an ill-fitting uniform. Mr. Wang was forced to idle the plant about 18
months ago, laying off nearly all of his 100 employees.

Mr. Wang, though, has refused to liquidate the factory. Instead, he maintains
the machinery, waiting for the day when the economy revives and he can produce
cement once again -- a day that even he acknowledges may never come. ''Many of
the small and medium cement plants here are like this,'' Mr. Wang says. ''The
chances are slim that they will ever reopen.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/business/international/zombie-factories-stalk-
the-sputtering-chinese-economy.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The state-owned Changzhi Cement Group factory. Though the plant
halted production two years ago, it was never formally closed. (BU1)
Top, from left, piles of coal outside the bankrupt Shawang cement factory, near
Changzhi
a resident of a village near the state-owned Changzhi Cement Group plant, which
left employees in limbo when it stopped production
 a staircase in an abandoned section of the Changzhi Cement Group plant. Above,
a worker in a control room at that factory, which has temporarily resumed
limited production under a private company. Below, cement sacks at the abandoned
7016 cement factory near Changzhi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (BU5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (91%); NEW MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%);
CEMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%);
STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); FOREIGN
INVESTMENT (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (62%)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (91%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE
BUILDERS) (91%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT
FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY
HOUSES (91%)

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Severino's Arm and Gregorius's Bat Help Yankees Keep Pace in Division

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; YANKEES 3, BRAVES 1; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 309 words


ATLANTA --  Luis Severino pitched six shutout innings, and Didi Gregorius and
Brian McCann delivered key hits for the second consecutive game as the Yankees
beat the Atlanta Braves, 3-1, on Saturday.

The victory allowed the Yankees to stay a game and a half behind the Toronto
Blue Jays in the American League East.

The Yankees never trailed, but they never built a comfortable lead, instead
relying on Severino, who continued to shine after being called up from the minor
leagues this month.

Severino, in his fifth major league start, allowed four hits, walked three and
did not give up a run in six innings. Three times he wriggled out of a jam with
two men on base, finally leaving when Alex Rodriguez pinch-hit for him in the
seventh inning.

The Yankees took a 1-0 lead in the first inning as Jacoby Ellsbury led off with
a double and eventually scored on a wild pitch by the Braves' Matt Wisler.

They added a run in the seventh, knocking Wisler from the game as Chase Headley
and Gregorius hit back-to-back doubles. Gregorius had driven in six runs Friday,
his most in a game in his career.

The Braves closed the gap to 2-1 in the bottom of the inning when the return
throw on a 3-6-1 double-play attempt bounced off the glove of Yankees reliever
Justin Wilson, allowing Christian Bethancourt to score from third. But the
Yankees restored their two-run lead in the eighth when Carlos Beltran walked and
pinch-runner Chris Young scored on a double by McCann, a former Braves star who
drove in four runs in his return to Turner Field on Friday.

Like Severino, reliever Dellin Betances was at his best with runners on base. He
came on to relieve Wilson in the seventh, with two runners aboard, and ended the
inning by getting Freddie Freeman to tap back to the mound. In the eighth, he
struck out Andrelton Simmons with the tying runs on base.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/luis-severinos-strong-outing-c
arries-yankees-to-victory.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With Chase Headley at bat in the first, a wild pitch got past
Braves catcher Christian Bethancourt, allowing a run to score. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MIKE ZARRILLI/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS
(58%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taxicab Confessions

BYLINE: By SIMON WINCHESTER.

Simon Winchester's latest book, ''Pacific,'' will be published in October.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1277 words


THE INCARNATIONSBy Susan Barker 371 pp. Touchstone. $26.  Traveling in China
back in the early 1990s, I was waiting for my westbound train to take on water
at a lonely halt in the Taklamakan Desert when a young Chinese woman tapped me
on the shoulder, asked if I spoke English and, further, if I knew anything of
Anthony Trollope. I was quite taken aback. Trollope here? A million miles from
anywhere? I mumbled an incredulous, ''Yes, I know a bit'' -- whereupon, in a
brisk and businesslike manner, she declared that the train would remain at the
oasis for the next, let me see, 27 minutes, and in that time would I kindly
answer as many of her questions as possible about plot and character development
in ''The Eustace Diamonds''?

Ever since that encounter, I've been fully convinced of China's perpetual and
preternatural power to astonish, amaze and delight. And seldom in the years
since have I felt that conviction more powerfully than while reading ''The
Incarnations,'' Susan Barker's astonishing, amazing -- yet hardly delightful --
new novel. It has left me quite as flabbergasted today as I felt at that desert
railway station a quarter of a century ago. Flabbergasted and at the same time
quite troubled.

Barker is a Londoner, the daughter of a British father and a Malaysian-­Chinese
mother, and she has devoted her decade-long fiction-writing career to Asian
topics. Her first novel was set in a hostess bar in Osaka (Barker once taught
­English in a village near Kyoto), the second in the Malayan jungles and the
streets of ­London. In this third novel, set in contemporary Beijing, the
narrative centers on the wretched life of a taxi driver named Wang Jun, a man of
early promise who has been brought low by a cruel combination of personal
breakdown, bad luck and betrayal. The book's clever central contrivance involves
a series of mysterious letters that are left in Wang's taxicab, all written by a
self-­described soul mate. Each of these ­letters describes, to Wang's
understandably alarmed perplexity, ­episodes of the driver's previous
incarnations as a bit player in some 15 centuries of China's past.

But this clever conceit aside, it's the small sagas of Chinese history contained
in the letters, together with Barker's vivid descriptions of today's China, that
set this book apart as a work of considerable, if unnerving, importance. Were I
a teacher of Chinese history, I would argue that Barker's novel brilliantly
illuminates some of the defining episodes in the nation's long, long story at
least as vividly as any of the textbooks available in our schools. But perhaps
more ­dangerously too. The letters offer up five such episodes, running from the
Tang dynasty to the modern era. Each is a tightly wound, intensely wrought,
fantastically exciting novella, detailing the minutiae of imagined lives in the
richly perfumed gardens of China's near endless past.

It was interesting to learn, in the specific matter of minutiae, that Barker
counts among her influences the French literary gymnast Georges Perec. And you
can see it: The delicate tracery of his unforgettable ''Life: A User's Manual''
runs through many of the most intricate passages of ''The Incarnations,'' and
fans of the man who gave us ''A Void'' (written entirely without the use of the
letter ''e'') must rejoice that this prominent advocate of the so-called Oulipo
movement, who died in 1982, has such an able disciple in Barker. Perec would
have particularly relished her portrait of Sorceress Wu, a figure from Wang's
seventh-century-incarnated past:

''She decants into vials potions to cure heartsickness, abort a fetus or punish
a husband who rapes the 12-year-old servant girl. She sells bottles of deadly
nightshade, and hallucinogenic venom extracted from the heavy-lidded toad she
keeps in a bamboo cage. She sells amulets and antilust charms. She sells a
poultice to a cabbage seller to grow back his amputated foot.''

Four further episodes, in each of which our driver's predecessors play cameo
roles, male or female as the soul mate divines, are recounted thanks to the
time-shrouded correspondent. The pointillist portrait of China that emerges is
hardly a pretty one: This is by no means an easy book. And herein lies its
central problem. This is a work -- beguiling, readable, intense -- that can
become fodder for those who fear the seemingly inevitable rise of a country that
is once again ­being plagued by the endlessly resurfacing racist notion of the
''yellow peril.''

Letter by letter, we read of a society that seems to move from one dystopic
nightmare to another, turning away from one period of turmoil toward the next
time of killing, rapine and disorder. What makes China's dystopias so
repellently fascinating in ''The Incarnations'' is that ­Barker often sets them
against backdrops of ­immeasurably civilized creations. Thus the decadences of
old acquire a kind of mesmerizing magnificence, their terrors almost forgivable
because the extravagance is so tastefully arranged. Few of the fancy New York
auctions of Ming dynasty tableware, for instance, would have catalogs containing
lines like these from the novel's 16th-century letter, which describes an
emperor who ''lifts his ­porcelain cup and drains the last of his elk-horn and
deer-penis beverage.'' Nor would they reveal that this same emperor -- ­Jiajing,
a real figure -- had a penchant for deflowering virgins and would set about
­mutilating them with his finely wrought silver scalpels. Such inconvenient
details are largely erased from the export version of the China story, and so we
happily place our costly Ming cups prominently on our townhouse pedestals.
Barker is here to remind us of their possible provenance.

Or does she, fully? Is Jiajing's awfulness truly a fair and proper
representation, or is it a comic book caricature that plays handsomely into the
hands of an alarmist reader? Is much of what makes so many Westerners tremble at
the prospect of the coming Chinese century not wholly true? This question hangs
in the air, even while the book's stellar narrative carries us briskly along.

There is little kindness or gentility in the modern sections either. One of the
driver's later avatars encounters a red-haired barbarian from England and
rescues him from Chinese pirates, only to fall victim to his cruelty. Another
runs up against the insanities of the Cultural Revolution. This same incarnation
then enjoys a tender lesbian love affair even as the excesses of the Red Guards
are being played out around her, a lurid and hardly necessary distraction
designed perhaps to leaven the wretchedness of a long national tragedy.

There are also allusive nods to great natural disasters like the Tangshan
earthquake (which killed more than 240,000 people in 1976), to the death of Mao,
to the massacre at Tiananmen Square. But in this book, teased out from the
­newsworthy events that seem important to foreigners, are portraits of the times
that, to the Chinese, truly are: the reign of the Ming, the coming of the
Mongols, the rise of the Politburo. These are the real Chinese milestones; the
rest -- even the killings at Tiananmen -- are merely background. Barker's book
wisely sticks to what's important in the long term, whether we Westerners think
it's important or not.

After all, to China the long term is all. Nowadays, few can be in much doubt of
the main consequence of the People's Republic's widely assumed game plan -- that
by 2049, the nation's centenary, it will have achieved much of the goal I once
saw painted on a signboard outside a ­desert space station: ''Without Haste.
Without Fear. China Will Conquer the World.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/the-incarnations-by-susan-barker.
html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARCOS CHIN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); TRAINS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); FICTION
LITERATURE (87%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); TEXTBOOKS (72%); WRITERS
(71%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); MALAYSIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Out of the City and Into the Hammock

BYLINE: By DAN SHAW

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; WHAT I LOVE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 624 words


Frederique van der Wal decided to buy a weekend house 15 years ago, when she was
pregnant with Scyler, her daughter with the screenwriter Nicholas Klein.

''I was looking for something with an authentic feel, where a child could run on
the grass,'' she said recently, strolling across the lawn of her 19-acre
property near Rhinebeck, N.Y. ''I ended up finding an old Dutch house and barn
from 1790.''

Ms. van der Wal, a model whose résumé includes Victoria's Secret and who turns
48 this month, added: ''I've learned what people meant when they said to me,
'Are you sure this isn't a money pit?' ''

The house may be a permanent fixer-upper, but that doesn't bother her.
''Sometimes people find old houses scary, but I love it,'' she said. ''My next
project is replacing the shutters. I found a whole bunch in the barn that were
original to the house, and I've begun painting them.''

Ms. Van der Wal, who was born and raised in the Netherlands, suspects she was
drawn to the Hudson Valley because of its Dutch heritage. But it is also less
than two hours from downtown Manhattan, where she lives during the week.

''The moment you begin driving up here, you feel like you've left the craziness
of the city behind,'' she said. ''You immediately feel like you're in nature,
and that's what's allowed me to survive New York. It's kept me grounded.''

Her life in the city has been especially hectic this summer, as she has been
working 12-hour days, filming a still-unnamed series for the FYI network, in
which she uses flowers and plants to transform people's homes. The show is her
way of introducing Frederique's Choice, the floral delivery business she started
in Europe in 2008, to the United States.

''What you see on the website is exactly what you get,'' she said. ''The flowers
come in a biodegradable vase with a canvas bag, if you want to carry them to
bring as a gift.''

Naturally, one of her bouquets was on the kitchen island, next to a basket of
fresh eggs. ''In Holland, flowers are ingrained in our culture,'' she said. ''If
I come into someone's home and don't see plants or flowers, I think the space is
dead.''

Ms. van der Wal grows flowers and vegetables next to the renovated tennis court,
which ''was derelict when I bought the property,'' she said. ''I had it painted
red, so it looks like clay. I love to play tennis.''

She loves to swim as well, and the pond was another project. ''It was all
overgrown when we moved in, and I had it dug out,'' she said. ''I grew up in The
Hague, so water is very important to me. And I thought it was important that my
daughter wasn't scared of swimming with the fish.''

In cooler months, she gathers friends and family around the fireplaces in the
living and dining rooms. ''We have 20 or 30 people for Thanksgiving,'' she said.

A visitor noticed several collections on display, including oversize eggshells
on the dining table (from a neighbor who raises ostriches, she explained) and
vintage mannequins in a corner of the living room. ''I thought they were so
cool,'' she said. ''I used to have them in New York guarding us there, and now
they are guarding us here.''

Prying open a cabinet hidden in the paneling of the dining room, she showed off
one of many built-in secrets. ''This is one of the nooks and crannies that made
me fall in love with the house.''

And in Scyler's room, she opened a trap door in the floor, revealing a staircase
to the kitchen. ''You only find things like this in old houses,'' she said.

But the best thing about the house, she said, is that it's a place to spend time
with Scyler. ''I was worried she would want to stay in the city now that she's a
teenager,'' Ms. van der Wal said. ''But she likes to invite her friends here --
thank God.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/a-victorias-secret-model-on-her-per
manent-fixer-upper.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Frederique van der Wal and her daughter, Scyler, have a retreat
near Rhinebeck, N.Y. The wooden beams and cabinets surrounding the kitchen
fireplace are original to the 1790 house. The wisteria-covered pergola is a
favorite spot for summer meals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PRESTON SCHLEBUSCH FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); TENNIS (72%); SPORTS (72%); CITY LIFE
(65%); CITIES (65%)

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York's Trees, 'Living Archives' of the City

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | THE BRONX; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1074 words


The first image visitors see when exploring ''New York City of Trees,'' an
exhibition of 10 photographs by Benjamin Swett at Wave Hill, in Riverdale, the
Bronx, is bound to leave the wrong impression.

''Copper Beech,'' a photograph Mr. Swett shot on the 28-acre premises in 2010,
captures the sun pouring through a statuesque beech that has since died. Tufts
of its leaves glow pink in the spring light; its shadow spills across an expanse
of green lawn. Serenity is the effect. So it is surprising to hear Mr. Swett, of
Manhattan, say that the process of taking such shots ''is never what I would
call peaceful.''

''When I'm out doing this, I'm always pushing myself to get the essence of the
tree,'' he said in the cafe within the Wave Hill House, the gallery where the
photographs, from his 2013 book ''New York City of Trees,'' line the walls of
two rooms. ''It's usually an intense experience.''

The book won the New York Society Library's 2013 New York City Book Award for
Photography. The Wave Hill exhibition represents a distillation of a previous
show of photographs from the book staged at the Arsenal Gallery in Central Park
in 2013, Mr. Swett said.

But the Wave Hill setting feels more personal. ''A lot of what I've learned
about trees has been through arborists, and some of the arborists are here at
Wave Hill,'' he said. ''It's a meaningful show from that standpoint. And it's
also allowed me to pull together what I think is a strong example of what I'm
doing.''

Those who saw a first showing of Mr. Swett's New York City tree photographs at
Wave Hill 14 years ago, a year after he published his first book, ''Great Trees
of New York City: A Guide,'' might agree, said Jennifer McGregor, Wave Hill's
director of arts and senior curator.

''By now, Benjy has such an encyclopedic knowledge of trees that the work has
just gotten deeper and deeper,'' Ms. McGregor said. ''It really comes across in
the breadth of the images.''

Among her favorites in the new show is ''American Elm,'' a 2003 shot of a
graceful tilting elm, in full leaf, along the Harlem River Drive. ''Of course
you know there are trees along the Harlem River Drive, but this photograph makes
you aware of it in a way that you weren't before,'' she said. ''Now you're
thinking, nature's everywhere. And it's so, so important.''

Mr. Swett, 56, is devoted to the trees of New York City's five boroughs,
including the six in the show that are listed among the New York City parks
department's Great Trees, a kind of tree hall of fame begun in 1985. Great Trees
were selected through a nomination process in the 1980s; community groups in
each borough recommended favorites of unusual size, species, form or historical
association.

But trees are not all that interest the tall and soft-spoken Mr. Swett. Since
leaving a full-time job in 2001 in the parks department, where he was director
of Parks in Print, a publications office that created booklets on the history of
neighborhood parks, he has worked as a freelance photographer, photographing
weddings or corporate officers, or working on commissions from groups including
the Alliance for the Arts in New York.

''I managed to cobble together a living after making the crazy decision to leave
a job where I was collecting a regular paycheck,'' he said.

Mr. Swett also teaches nature photography courses at Wave Hill four times a year
(the next group of classes begins Oct. 8), and he has had nine exhibitions of
his work in New York. He has published four books of photography, with
substantial blocks of text rather than simple captions.

''In many ways the writing is as important to me as the visual part,'' he said.
After graduating from Harvard with a degree in English and American literature
in 1982, he worked briefly as a newspaper reporter at The Patent Trader, a
newspaper in Mount Kisco that is no longer in business. ''I made the decision in
college to be a writer, but I felt I was walking along with only one shoe,''
because of his love of photography, he said.

Evidence of Mr. Swett's passion for nature photography dates to 1977, when he
was 18 and spent a summer at a remote fishing village in Newfoundland. A few
years ago, while cleaning out his mother-in-law's attic, he found 40 rolls of
film he shot that summer.

''Many of them were very good,'' he discovered. In July, he went back to the
200-year-old village and took more photos. He is currently working on a project
to document the village's present and past.

That theme -- the past and present -- is woven through all of Mr. Swett's work,
including the tree images at Wave Hill.

''You can look at trees as carriers of the city's past, in a way,'' Mr. Swett
said. ''Each year that a tree is alive, it forms a new layer of wood. And the
size and the makeup of that layer of wood is a reflection of the carbon and the
sunlight and the rain in the environment. So they're almost like living archives
of the environment.''

But because Mr. Swett's images are not cross-sections of trees' inner layers,
they may arouse a more personal sense of time.

'The thing I was very much trying to get across in the photographs is that
trees, even if you're just passing them on the way to work, they've connected
you to that place, and with the states of mind you might have been in,'' he
said. ''You might not even be aware of a tree until it's gone, and then all of a
sudden there's a big gaping hole, and it feels like a loss of part of
yourself.''

The 55 images in the book were shot from 2002 to 2012. ''I would go back two,
three, four times -- different times of day, different seasons,'' he said. ''I
was constantly being approached by people from the neighborhoods who had
stories: 'My grandfather told me that tree was growing here when he was a boy,'
or 'I remember when so-and-so threw something and it got stuck in the tree.'
They would talk about something having to do with the tree that they had long
harbored in their hearts.''

His hope is that the photographs produce more of those kinds of associations
with New York City's trees.

''I want the pictures to be a way of exploring a sense of connection to
something outside oneself,'' he said. Shooting the images ''brought me a sense
of expansiveness,'' he said, adding, ''I hope that comes across.''

''New York City of Trees'' is at Wave Hill House, 675 West 252nd Street, the
Bronx, until March 27. Information: 718-549-3200; wavehill.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/at-wave-hill-photos-of-new-yorks-tree
s-living-archives-of-the-city.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: Benjamin Swett at Wave Hill, in the
Bronx
''American Elm'' (photographed in 2003), Harlem River Drive, Manhattan
''Copper Beech'' (2010, removed 2013), Wave Hill
and ''Post Oak'' (2012), Hunter Island, Pelham Bay Park, the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY JOSHUA BRIGHT
 BENJAMIN SWETT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

There's Something About MARY

BYLINE: By KATY WALDMAN.

Katy Waldman is a writer for Slate.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1315 words


SPEAKBy Louisa Hall 336 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99.  A less
artful title for ''Speak,'' Louisa Hall's sidereal novel on artificial (and thus
human) intelligence, might be ''What We Talk About When We Talk About
Computers.'' This starfish of a book, five voices waving gracefully around a
core of philosophical questions, wants to explore the nature of memory; the
borders of personhood; how words can illumine and obscure and hoodwink and
rescue.

Characters connect to each other across space and time. There's Stephen Chinn, a
tech wunderkind imprisoned after building ''illegally lifelike'' robots, and
Gaby White, a young girl who is devastated when her robot is recalled. Alan
Turing, the mathematician and code breaker, writes heartfelt letters to the
mother of his best friend and dreams of machines that think. A Puritan teenager
named Mary Bradford, having smuggled her dog aboard a ship to Massachusetts,
wonders about the difference between human and animal souls and fills a diary
with her apprehensions about marriage. In the 1960s, a Jewish refugee, Ruth
Dettman, finds the diary and is enchanted. Her own relationship with the
computer scientist Karl Dettman has gone cold; nevertheless, she persuades Karl
to name the chat program he's invented -- and that he later disowns -- MARY.

Fast forward nearly a century, and MARY has become the operating system used to
animate Chinn's dangerous talking dolls, as well as Gaby's last remaining
confidante. Through chains of causality too twisted to unwind here, the software
has recorded much of the characters' speech and writing. (And so proves an
unnervingly good proxy for us.)

Even a genius algorithm would need days to track the echoes across the five
narratives. But post-''Cloud Atlas,'' ''Speak'' feels less remarkable for its
structure than for its thoughtfulness and emotional force. Hall is a poet -- she
studied with Seamus Heaney -- and that training comes through not just in her
musical phrasing or intimacy of expression. (''Without you,'' Karl Dettman
thinks when his wife stops speaking to him, ''everything is draped in sheets of
darkness, as if we were moving away.'')

Swathing literary preoccupations in Â­sci-fi motifs, Hall takes a cue from Emily
St. John Mandel, the ''Station Eleven'' author, whose appreciative blurb may
help this novel find readers. She brines her book in apocalyptic elements --
mysterious regulations placed on travel, drought, ocean levels high and rising
-- and yet ''Speak,'' a cascade of ''found'' documents and transcripts, is less
''Black Mirror'' dystopia than meditation on how life, Â­spirit, improbably gets
into language.

MARY ''will remember your words,'' Karl Dettman warns Ruth, ''but it won't ever
feel them. It won't understand them. It will only throw them back in your
face.'' One of the illegal dolls, programmed to retrieve and recite whatever
stored spools of human speech are appropriate to the situation, feels
differently: ''In memory, though not in experience, I have lived across
centuries,'' she tells us. ''I lay in one child's arms. She said my name and I
Â­answered.''

Hall pulls here at the Wordsworthian idea of the recollected moment, the living
voice tucked inside the mechanical tinkle of rhyme and meter. Her robotic minds
are poems -- vessels in which to keep shards of humanity. And so this book about
artificial intelligence is also a book about form, physical and literary. It
fits that Turing shows his doomed best friend a nautilus shell, a house made of
spiraling chambers through which a creature moves, each pearled compartment a
time capsule. Other characters consider the consolations and betrayals of having
a body, of touch and physical motion. Wheelchair-bound, Gaby muses on the
pleasure of a bus ride: ''I've never felt anything like it .
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. It was like I was vibrating at the right
frequency.''

Of course, our fascination with form is almost always a displaced hunger for
what escapes it. It's no surprise that Turing should keep returning to the 1937
''Snow White'' movie: ''Speak'' -- a novel about structure and algorithms -- is
also a novel about souls, and fairy tales from ''The Little Mermaid'' to
''Pinocchio'' were bestowing souls on unlikely recipients long before A.I.
arrived on the scene. In Turing's favorite quotation, the evil queen commands
her mirror: ''Through wind and darkness I summon thee. Speak! Let me see thy
face!'' It is an old type of magic, this revelation of life where you thought to
find none, and one that lonely people may hold especially dear. Again and again
in ''Speak,'' estranged and alienated characters gaze at their monitors; a voice
curls out unexpectedly, like smoke from cold cinders. ''It's a misguided speech,
isn't it?'' Turing says of the queen's order. ''Demanding a voice, but wanting a
face?'' But that is the implicit promise and threat of the entire book: Where
there's a voice, can a face be far behind?

What do we talk about when we talk about computers? ''Speak'' wants to claim
that the gap between humans and machines is slimmer than we think -- not because
people are simplistic, but because the universe itself answers to discoverable,
if mesmerizingly complicated, rules. As MARY asks Gaby, ''Who are you, other
than the person you've selected this morning to be? Isn't that what humans do
when they try to be liked? Select the right kind of voice, learned after years
of listening in? The only difference between you and me is that I have more
voices to select from.'' Characters behave like coded programs: Gaby shuts down
when her doll is confiscated. Chinn -- who eventually devises a ''seduction
equation'' designed to make him irresistible to women -- is taunted in school
for being more robot than boy.

And programs behave like characters. Gaby's sentient doll wrestles with her
existence like any quizzical adolescent. In her warehouse mausoleum, she thinks
of Gaby, her mother: ''Words she taught me, .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6].
the name she gave me alone. Eva. That's you. You are her. The illusion of coming
to life in her arms.''

You'd be right to hear an accusation in that word, ''illusion.'' In ''Speak''
(and in general), people make for terrible gods; they can barely hack it as
people. The inventors -- Dettman, Turing, Chinn -- express a familiar wish to
unmake their wax wings. (''There is a constant longing in me for return to a
more original state, before the apple was tasted,'' Turing confesses.) ''Speak''
may not be the first science fiction novel to counterpoise hubris, ingenuity,
loss and progress. But the delicacy with which it juggles those concerns,
allowing each its crystalline, utterly persuasive and transfixing moment in the
air, speaks to Hall's uncommonly deep and complex intellectual engagement with
her themes.

As the Dettmans' marriage unravels, MARY serves as a projection screen for
Karl's and Ruth's insecurities. ''Be honest and say you want me to build a
Â­computer that's the opposite of your husband, a machine with endless memory,''
Karl Â­explodes at his wife. Ruth later replies: ''I thought of her as a woman
whom you'd permitted to speak, but hadn't allowed to remember.''

So the computers advance, repositories of characters' desires and fears,
reservoirs of their pasts. The vessels may not be human, but the substance
unquestionably is -- which makes Hall's framing of the A.I. question as one of
form and content (rather than, say, us versus them) Â­especially thrilling.

Works of art have long cultivated a kind of artificial intelligence, from
Keats's living hand (which demands a transfusion of the reader's lifeblood) to
the beseeching gaze of the ''Girl With a Pearl Earring.'' The freshness -- the
brilliance, even -- of ''Speak'' lies in its positioning of robots not as
terrifyingly new, but as the latest in a long line of ''magic mirrors'' from
which we are powerless to look away.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/speak-by-louisa-hall.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Louisa Hall (PHOTOGRAPH BY BONNIE BERRY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%);
LITERATURE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPUTER
SCIENCE (72%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%); SMUGGLING (71%); REFUGEES (71%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%);
SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Slap May Not Be Enough to Correct Markets

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER.

Robert J. Shiller is Sterling Professor of Economics at Yale.

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1243 words


Over the five trading days between Aug. 17 and Aug. 24, the United States stock
market dropped 10 percent -- the official definition of a correction, with
similar or greater drops in other countries.

The word ''correction'' puts a warm coloration on the harrowing decline, as if
it were a sort of useful discipline imposed by a teacher on a student. In fact,
there have been 29 declines of 10 percent or more in the market since 1950,
according to a report by Yardeni Research, enough corrections to make this
month's events seem part of a regular, healthy regimen.

But there are reasons to question whether this was a quick, effective slap on
the wrist, or if the market is still too overactive, and thus asking for a more
extended punishment.

One way to measure stock market overvaluation is a modified price-earnings ratio
developed from work that I did with John Campbell of Harvard University in the
late 1980s. We call it the Cyclically Adjusted Price Earnings ratio (CAPE). High
levels of CAPE tend to be followed by poor stock market performance, not
necessarily immediately, but over long intervals of time.

The average CAPE ratio between 1881 and 2015 in the United States is 17; in
July, it reached 27. Levels higher than that have occurred very few times,
including the years surrounding the stock market peaks of 1929, 2000 and 2007.
In all three of these instances, the stock market eventually collapsed.

In two other episodes, CAPE was very high -- following sharp increases in the
preceding couple of years -- when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10
percent in just five days. One was in April 2000, when CAPE stood at 44, and
that was followed by a huge crash that eventually took the S.&P. 500 further
down by an additional 43 percent by 2003. The other was in August 1998. At that
point, CAPE was around 35. This was during the Russian debt crisis, and the
market roared back while President Bill Clinton was in Moscow dealing with the
crisis. It's hard to know what caused this rebound. Maybe it was the excitement
of the dot-com gold rush and the coming new millennium. Somehow investors
decided after the correction that it was time to mine the stock market rubble
for gold. They were right about the market, though the United States stock
market eventually crashed, beginning less than two years later.

Ten percent drops in the S.&P. 500 in just five trading days -- such as what we
just experienced -- have not been common. Out of the 29 corrections since 1950,
only nine happened in five days or less. Most of those happened since 2000,
possibly because of the Internet and faster communications. Such rare sharp
drops are psychologically significant; an extreme one-day collapse seems to
create anxiety that imprints on people's memories and could contribute to a
downward momentum.

There is much scholarly literature on momentum, starting in 1993 with a
bombshell paper by Narasimhan Jegadeesh and Sheridan Titman. That paper found
that stock prices aren't really a random walk, as had been previously theorized,
but that prices of individual stocks do tend a bit to continue in a direction
initially set, for a matter of three months to a year.

But subsequent research by Kent Daniel and Tobias Moskowitz published 20 years
later found that momentum can be unreliable. For instance, those people who bet
on the downward path of the stock market between 2007 and 2009 were sorely
disappointed when the stock market soared back.

Unfortunately, all this literature on momentum is not definitive for the present
situation, since it is not so focused on the rare huge drops from very high
levels that have characterized recent days. To get some hints about the outlook
today, maybe we have to use a different method.

There is a social phenomenon loosely called a speculative bubble that can drive
prices, even occasionally for the world's stock markets, to high levels.

The notion of a speculative bubble was seen for a long time as disreputable in
finance circles, but it is gradually gaining acceptance. It takes a different
view of the world, more akin to that of psychologists or sociologists.

In general, bubbles appear to be associated with half-baked popular stories that
inspire investor optimism, stories that can neither be proved nor disproved. In
recent days, those stories have been about peppy earnings growth or perpetual
low interest rates or about the inevitable high long-run performance of the
stock market. During the upswing of the bubble, many people find it useful to
latch on to these stories, to profit from the illusions they create. Some of
these people are in the investment field, others in politics or the news media.
In the words of John Kenneth Galbraith in 1958, they create with constant
repetition, because it profits them, a sense of ''conventional wisdom'' about
some inspiring investor story.

In a soon-to-appear book, ''Phishing for Phools: The Economics of Manipulation
and Deception'' (Princeton University Press), that I wrote with George Akerlof
of Georgetown University, we argue that the proliferation of such stories is a
natural part of economic equilibrium. Successful people who value their careers
rely on an instinctive sense for what pitch will sell. Who knows what the truth
is, anyway?

As time goes on, the stories justifying investor optimism become increasingly
shopworn and criticized, and people find themselves doubting them more and more.
Even though people are asking themselves if prices are too high, they are slow
to take action to sell. When prices make a sudden drop, as they did in recent
days, people tend to become fearful, even if there is a subsequent rebound. With
the drop they suddenly realize that their views might be shared by other people,
and start looking for information that might confirm their belief. Some are
driven to sell immediately. Others are slower, but they are all similarly
motivated. The result is an irregular but large stock market decline over a year
or more.

Recently, people have started to wonder if the market is too high. Since 1989,
I've conducted surveys of both individual and institutional investors. I ask
respondents whether the stock market is overpriced, underpriced or about right.
Our valuation confidence index is the percent of those investors who think the
stock market is not overpriced -- that is, who think it is fairly valued or
undervalued. Though this index charts only six-month averages, it is noteworthy
that it has been dropping over the last few years, to the lowest level since
just before the stock market crash of 2000. Though it is not quite as low as at
that time, it is lower than at the market peak in 2007.

It is entirely plausible that the shaking of investor complacency in recent days
will, despite intermittent rebounds, take the market down significantly and
within a year or two restore CAPE ratios to historical averages. This would put
the S.&P. closer to 1,300 from around 1,900 on Wednesday, and the Dow at 11,000
from around 16,000. They could also fall further; the historical average is not
a floor.

Or maybe this could be another 1998. We have no statistical proof. We are in a
rare and anxious ''just don't know'' situation, where the stock market is
inherently risky because of unstable investor psychology.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/upshot/rising-anxiety-that-stocks-are-overpric
ed.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a news ticker in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, when
markets dropped precipitously around the globe. Below, traders on the floor of
the New York Stock Exchange on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY
IMAGES
 BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%);
STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%);
INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); DEBT CRISIS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Venezuelan Town, a State of Emergency Is Barely Perceptible

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Patricia Torres contributed reporting from San
Antonio del Táchira, and Susan Abad from Cúcuta, Colombia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1287 words


SAN ANTONIO DEL TÁCHIRA, Venezuela --  President Nicolás Maduro has declared a
state of emergency in this Venezuelan border town in what he says is nothing
less than a fight for national survival. More than 1,000 Colombian immigrants
have been deported and some basic guarantees, like the right to hold most public
gatherings, have been suspended.

And yet Crazy Land soldiers on.

That is the name of a traveling carnival that happened to set up shop in a field
just outside town a few days before the state of emergency was declared on Aug.
21. Despite the restriction on public gatherings, the park has continued to
operate, its colored lights blinking cheerily every night as a few doughty souls
venture out to ride the caterpillar-shaped children's roller coaster or whirling
teacups, called Crazy Dance, or try their hand at games of chance.

''The way the government is doing the state of emergency, no one understands
it,'' said Edward Fabelo, 35, looking out from the ticket booth over the nearly
empty carnival, where a family tossed balls at a stack of cans in a vain attempt
to win a SpongeBob SquarePants toy. ''You'd expect to see the authorities in the
streets, the liquor stores closed.'' He shrugged. ''They have their own way of
doing things.''

To hear Mr. Maduro talk about it on television, the state of emergency is about
Venezuela's survival as a sovereign nation.

''We have been obliged by historical circumstance to take extraordinary and
exceptional measures,'' Mr. Maduro said, ''to protect the people, to liberate
our country from criminals, from paramilitaries, from an economic war, from war
against the humble hardworking people of Venezuela and Colombia. It is a plan of
liberation and sovereignty on our border.''

But for all the noise emanating from Caracas, the capital, about a 13-hour drive
away, a casual visitor to this border city might well ask: What state of
emergency?

There is no curfew.

Bars remain open. People hold drinking parties in the street.

In the nearby town of Ureña, an approach to a major bridge, which has been
closed to all cross-border traffic, was protected on Thursday by six soldiers
standing by a pair of flimsy barriers made of pipe and a few sagging strands of
barbed wire. Only one of them carried a gun: an officer with a sidearm. Across
the street, two teams of girls played a soccer game on an artificial turf field.

Here in San Antonio, the police and soldiers virtually disappear after dark.

On two recent nights, in the slum that Mr. Maduro singled out as an epicenter of
the evils that threaten the country -- including paramilitary activity,
smuggling and sex trafficking -- there was not a single soldier or police
officer to be seen.

And yet a visitor could walk about freely, with indignant residents pointing out
the small house that soldiers had demolished, claiming it was a brothel (it was,
once, the residents said, but that was more than a year ago) and the many
ordinary homes that troops had leveled, following the president's order to
destroy the neighborhood.

During the day, on the other hand, soldiers are highly visible in the slum. On
Friday they were mostly seen lounging in the shade, chatting, napping or
checking their cellphones.

In contrast, only a short distance away, on the banks of the Táchira River,
which separates Venezuela from Colombia, there was a buzz of activity. Under a
blazing sun, Colombian immigrants who had either already been deported (and had
returned clandestinely) or feared deportation, waded back and forth, ferrying
their belongings across the gray-green water. Some carried their own possessions
and many hired Colombian porters, who trudged up the bank on the Venezuelan side
and into the slum to grab the next load.

On the Colombian side, police officers and soldiers waded into the water to help
those arriving. On the Venezuelan side, the authorities were completely absent.

A Colombian man pointed upriver and gave a warning whisper: ''The hooded ones
are there.''

He was referring to a second crossing nearby, where four Venezuelan intelligence
police agents wearing black ski masks and gripping automatic weapons stood
smoking cigars. But they simply watched as the Colombians hustled by, belongings
on their backs.

Two national guard soldiers sat on motorcycles at the top of the path to the
water. After a while one of them told some approaching Colombians that they
could no longer cross the river.

Asked why, the soldier said that he had received a call from a superior.

''Five minutes ago it was O.K.,'' the soldier said, ''and now it's not.''

That same arbitrariness has landed with brute force on hundreds of undocumented
Colombian immigrants, as well as many who are here legally and their Venezuelan
neighbors in this slum.

Once the emergency decree was announced, soldiers went door to door through the
slum, searching houses and checking identification papers. Colombians, including
many children, whose papers were not in order were marched to a soccer field
where they were made to sit all day in the heat. Several said they were given
neither food or water. That night they were deported.

Meanwhile, the soldiers spray-painted a letter by each door. Residents said that
an ''R'' indicated a house had been searched and a ''D'' that a house was slated
for demolition.

''R's'' and ''D's'' aside, Mr. Maduro has vowed to raze the entire neighborhood.

While large numbers of people along the border engage in at least small-scale
smuggling of subsidized Venezuelan goods, like gasoline or powdered milk, into
Colombia, many residents said that they worked for a living and did not deserve
to be lumped in with criminals.

Mr. Maduro faces a collapsing economy and low popularity ahead of crucial
legislative elections scheduled for December, and critics charge that the state
of emergency is an attempt to distract the country from pressing problems rather
than a serious bid to curb smuggling and violent crime.

The main border bridge in San Antonio has been shut, depriving the city of its
lifeblood, the thousands of people who cross to and from Colombia each day. But
elsewhere in the wide border area under the state of emergency, things appeared
to be operating pretty much as usual.

Frightened Colombians who sneaked back home across the river from Ureña last
week said they had to pay a bribe to Venezuelan national guard soldiers to cross
the river and another bribe to Colombian gangs when they got to the other side.

And a farmhand, who said that he had been working for decades in Venezuela
without ever having a visa, described how he waded across the river from his
home in Colombia each morning, waded back for lunch, returned in the afternoon
and crossed again to go home at night.

''I come here every day,'' said Luis Vega, 70, leaning on a shovel in a sugar
cane field in Ureña. ''They've never tried to stop me.''

At Crazy Land on a recent night, José Antonio Hernández, a 40-year-old
construction worker, and his family were among the few people at the carnival.
Colombian-born, he said he was in the country legally but was alarmed by the
mass deportation of his countrymen.

''We have to entertain ourselves as a distraction from this bad treatment,'' he
said as he stepped off the roller coaster.

Meanwhile, on Friday, one week after announcing the state of emergency, Mr.
Maduro said he was extending his fight against criminals to encompass another
large area of the border region, where he said the hunt for dangerous
paramilitaries that threaten the stability of the country would continue even if
the armed forces have to look ''under the rocks.''

Then he said that he was leaving the next day on a trip to Vietnam and China.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/americas/in-a-venezuelan-border-town-a-s
tate-of-emergency-is-barely-perceptible.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Undocumented Colombian immigrants waited Friday to be escorted
back to Colombia from the Venezuelan side of the border crossing at San Antonio
del Táchira.
 A traveling carnival called Crazy Land continues to operate despite a ban on
public gatherings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATES OF EMERGENCY (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); CURFEW
(78%); SMUGGLING (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); DEPORTATION (72%); BEER  WINE &
LIQUOR STORES (71%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (68%); SOCCER (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(68%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (68%); SEX TRAFFICKING (50%)

CITY: CARACAS, VENEZUELA (73%)

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); VENEZUELA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vanessa Vallarino, Neil Carpenter

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 218 words


Vanessa Viviane Vallarino and Neil Jared Carpenter were married Saturday by the
Rev. Dr. Matthew Calkins, an Episcopal priest, at the Flagler Memorial Chapel at
Millbrook School in Millbrook, N.Y.

The couple met at the Savannah College of Art and Design, from which they
graduated.

Ms. Vallarino, 30, who is keeping her name, owns V Curated, a clothing and
accessories store in Brooklyn, where she sells her women's wear label,
Vallarino, and other American designers.

She is the daughter of Vincent L. Vallarino and Gabrielle M. Vallarino of
Millbrook. The bride's father is a photographer and the owner of Vincent
Vallarino Fine Art, a dealership in Manhattan and Millbrook. Her mother is a
jewelry designer who owns the line Circa Design.

The groom, 31, is an industrial designer at NICE, a consulting firm in
Manhattan.

He is the son of Barbara B. Lynch of West Chester, Pa., and Paul D. Carpenter of
West Chester, Pa., and the stepson of Robin P. Carpenter and of William F.
Lynch. The groom's father is the vice president for sales at Harrington Inc.,
which makes hose attachments for firefighting equipment. The groom's stepfather
was a dean of the School of Education at Drexel University from 2004 to 2014 and
his stepmother retired as an administrative assistant at the home shopping
channel QVC.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/vanessa-vallarino-neil-carpen
ter.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); UNIVERSITY
ADMINISTRATION (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (76%); JEWELRY
(72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); STEPPARENTS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES
(71%)

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL UNIVERSITY (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By KEITH WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NUMBERS GAME; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 173 words


Money

$12 million

Cost of initial construction

of U.S.T.A. National Tennis Center, 1978 (renamed for

Billie Jean King in 2006)

$254 million

Cost of first renovation, 1993-97

$500 million

Estimated cost of new renovations, including roof

for Arthur Ashe Stadium

$0

Public money used to build U.S.T.A. National Tennis Center

$1.8 billion

Estimated taxpayer subsidies to build new Yankee Stadium and

Citi Field

Matches

94

Years the tournament was

held on grass (1881-1974)

3

Years the tournament was

held on clay (1975-77)

38

Years the tournament has

been held on a hard surface (1978-present)

Menu

6

Full-service restaurants at

the Tennis Center

60

Concession stands

15,000

Pounds of beef tenderloin

and steaks ordered for the

2015 U.S. Open

15,000

Pounds of crab, shrimp

and lobster

225,000

Hamburgers and hot dogs

7,000

Specialty tennis-ball cookies


Statistics compiled by KEITH WILLIAMS

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (93%); SPORTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS
& ARENAS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS
(88%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (88%); RESTAURANTS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS &
SUBSIDIES (55%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (59%); C (BMV) (59%); 8710 (TSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Incubating Dance in the Land of Movies

BYLINE: By BRIAN SEIBERT

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1174 words


LOS ANGELES -- ''Ah, I recommend it,'' Jodie Gates sighed, adopting the tone of
someone advocating an exotic spa treatment or sky diving. The satisfactions she
meant are much harder to come by. How many people get a state-of-the-art
building of nearly 55,000 square feet designed to their specifications? Ms.
Gates was standing near the construction site of such an edifice: the Glorya
Kaufman International Dance Center, the future home of the University of
Southern California's new Glorya Kaufman School of Dance.

As that dance school's director and vice dean, Ms. Gates could speak with
proprietary delight about the center, scheduled to open by next September. But
joining her on a tour of the partly finished structure a few weeks ago was a
visitor with an even greater sense of ownership: the philanthropist Glorya
Kaufman.

It was Ms. Kaufman's 2012 donation of an unspecified multimillion-dollar sum
that made possible the founding of the Kaufman school, the first new school in
nearly 40 years established through an endowment at the university, which barely
had a dance program before. The Kaufman school, which started classes this week,
is unusual in embedding a conservatory-style bachelor of fine arts program
within a private research university of some academic rigor. It's also
distinctive in curricular focus; its motto -- ''the New Movement'' -- connotes
revolution, and Ms. Gates speaks of ''reimagining dance education for the 21st
century.'' But aside from the part-time involvement of the world-renowned
choreographer William Forsythe, its main attention-getter is its nascent
building. It's a major structure devoted to dance in a city better known for
other arts, and a highly visible sign of how that situation is changing.

On the tour, Ms. Gates emphasized the made-to-order flexibility of the design --
Collegiate Gothic on the outside, modern within -- and how room-within-room
construction and basket-weave sprung floors will insulate each of the six
studios (one a convertible performance space) from the noise and vibration of
the others. At this stage, though, the strongest impression was of scale: the
30-foot ceilings, the yawning arched holes where tall windows will let in the
famed Los Angeles light. ''Dance requires space,'' Ms. Gates said, spreading her
arms wide.

Ms. Kaufman, wearing slacks of sparkling silver not usually paired with a hard
hat, seemed entirely comfortable among the tattooed workers and tickled by the
project's progress. She is no stranger to scaffolding; her fortune derives from
her late husband, Donald Kaufman, and the home-building company (now known as KB
Home) that he founded with Eli Broad. The new center won't be the first dance
structure with her name on it. Dance is her passion -- she says she believes in
it as a force for joy in the world -- and she's donated millions to dance and
dance education.

Despite her sunny exterior, Ms. Kaufman can be steely about how her money is
spent. In past interviews, she has expressed dissatisfaction with how the
University of California, Los Angeles -- whose dance department is housed in a
women's gym renovated in 2005 into Glorya Kaufman Hall -- was too
bureaucratically hamstrung to fulfill her grand vision. But so far, she said,
she ''couldn't be happier'' about the scale and design of the new school and
building at U.S.C.

The ambition is as large as she wants it to be. She also expressed confidence in
Ms. Gates, a prolific choreographer who spent most of her career as a ballerina
with the Joffrey Ballet and Frankfurt Ballet (under Mr. Forsythe's direction).
''I made sure she's in my contract,'' Ms. Kaufman said. Ms. Gates explained that
the curriculum she designed would take advantage of the opportunity to build a
''progressive program from square one.'' Talking to dance professionals around
the country, she looked into what was needed and what was lacking. Her goal, she
said, is ''to breed the next generation of hybrid artists -- creators,
innovators, entrepreneurs.'' B.F.A. candidates must study ballet and modern
dance but also hip-hop, dance management, dance for camera and digital media.
They will learn and perform dance masterworks but also participate in
colloquiums on topics like ''What Is the Medium of Dance Today?'' Senior
projects must involve at least two disciplines apart from dance.

Ms. Gates has already learned how to speak the language of the university's
brochures. ''Hybrid,'' ''interdisciplinary'' and ''entrepreneurial'' are
buzzwords across the campus. Partnerships between the Kaufman school and
U.S.C.'s Thornton School of Music and School of Cinematic Arts will encourage
collaborations between dancers, composers and filmmakers.

The Kaufman school emphasizes composition, both within the curriculum and in
conjunction with a new U.S.C. Choreographic Institute, a still vague research
platform advised by Mr. Forsythe, who plans to be on campus about six weeks a
year (and who declined to be interviewed for this article). Connections and
partnerships keep mounting, including one with Hubbard Street Dance Chicago.

Students will interact with the world-class performers who tour to the Music
Center, Los Angeles's largest performing arts presenter. The funding for its
dance series is evident in its name, Glorya Kaufman Presents Dance.

Ms. Gates also views her program as fitting in with a renaissance in the Los
Angeles dance scene. She fell in love with the area in the 1980s and '90s, when
the Joffrey Ballet was bicoastal, and after retiring from Frankfurt Ballet in
2004, she moved to Laguna Beach, where she founded the Laguna Dance Festival.
Since then, she has witnessed a tidal shift. ''It's covered wagon time again,''
she said. ''There's opportunity in the West. Dancers are moving here to dance,
and choreographers are coming here to form companies,'' she added, mentioning
Benjamin Millepied's L.A. Dance Project and up-and-coming troupes like
BodyTraffic. ''If we can train our students well, can you imagine what they will
contribute in five years?''

''So many things have happened with so little resistance,'' she explained,
citing high interest in the Kaufman school from potential students, faculty and
institutional partners. ''I feel like the universe is helping, like we must have
the right plan.''

For now, the first class of students -- larger than expected, 33 young dancers
who gave impressive answers to the question ''What does the New Movement mean to
you?'' -- will have to make do with a slightly renovated studio in the old
physical education building. Ms. Gates joked about the shabbiness of her current
office, as only someone about to move into much better accommodations would.

They all have the Kaufman center to look forward to. They can follow its
progress by webcam or walk over to the site, adjacent to the even larger
construction project of U.S.C. Village, a mix of student housing, restaurants
and shops. What ''the New Movement'' means -- just how new and how valuable --
will depend on what they do with all that space.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/dance/glorya-kaufman-school-of-dance-adds
-a-new-dimension-to-arts-in-los-angeles.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jodie Gates, top left, the director of the new Glorya Kaufman
School of Dance, with Ms. Kaufman at the Los Angeles construction site. Above, a
rendering of the building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAKE MICHAELS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PFEIFFER PARTNERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION
(90%); DANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (76%); CHARITIES (73%);
PHILANTHROPY (73%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (72%)

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (76%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING FOR-SALE BUILDERS (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL
CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (59%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hounded by Guns and Drought

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 193 words


It has been a summer full of shark programming, but National Geographic's
outlets are devoting the last Sunday of August to elephants and their struggles
to survive. At 8 p.m., the National Geographic Channel brings back ''Explorer''
with an episode called ''Warlords of Ivory,'' a disturbing look at how extreme
elephant poaching is in Africa. The journalist Bryan Christy puts a tracking
device inside a fake tusk in an effort to determine what path it travels on its
way to the black market, and who profits as it does. Mr. Christy has a
self-aggrandizing style, but the episode demonstrates that the ivory trade is no
longer limited to a lone poacher with a rifle; mass slaughter with automatic
weapons shot from helicopters is part of the problem.

At 9 p.m. on Nat Geo Wild, ''Elephant Queen'' presents the other challenge
elephants face: the environment. The program tracks a herd as it tries to
survive during the dry season by trekking for many harrowing miles to a feeding
ground whose location is passed on from generation to generation. The program,
though, requires a tolerance for the filmmaking tic of injecting human thoughts
into wild animals.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/television/national-geographics-tv-outlet
s-examine-elephants-plight.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trek to the Okavango Delta of Botswana in ''Elephant Queen.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EARTH TOUCH LTD.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (78%); WILDLIFE (77%);
HELICOPTERS (53%)

COUNTRY: AFRICA (90%); BOTSWANA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Turkey Launches Its First Airstrikes of ISIS Campaign

BYLINE: By CEYLAN YEGINSU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 356 words


ISTANBUL --  Turkey has launched its first wave of airstrikes as part of the
United States-led coalition to fight the Islamic State, the Foreign Ministry
said in a statement Saturday.

Turkish fighter jets carried out joint operations against Islamic State targets
in Syria late Friday, which posed a threat to Turkey's national security, the
statement said.

Islamic State militants gained control of five villages in northern Syria on
Thursday and advanced toward the Turkish border, according to the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights, a monitoring group.

The attack comes weeks after Turkey took a major tactical shift by assuming a
more active role in the campaign against the Islamic militant group, plunging
into direct cross-border confrontations and allowing American warplanes to use
its air bases.

Until now, Turkey, a NATO member and longtime ally of the United States, had
been unwilling to take a direct stance against the group, mainly out of concern
over retaliation.

Since shifting gears, however, Turkey has come under criticism for lagging in
its engagement and prioritizing its renewed military operations against a
Kurdish insurgency group in Turkey and Northern Iraq, a group that has
nonetheless been one of the most effective in fighting the Islamic State on the
ground.

Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter of the United States called on Ankara last
week to participate fully in the American-led campaign against the group and
increase security measures across its border with Syria.

Mr. Carter said Turkey needed to join in the airstrike campaign, adding, ''They
need to work more on controlling their border. And we've made that clear.''

Turkish officials have rejected accusations that they have been reluctant to
join international efforts to fight the Islamic State, and insist the delay is
because of lengthy discussions on logistics and technical operations.

Those talks were concluded last week, according to the Foreign Ministry, which
said Ankara would coordinate with coalition nations on airstrikes.

''The fight against the terrorist organization is a priority for Turkey,'' the
statement said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/europe/turkey-launches-its-first-airstri
kes-of-isis-campaign.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS &
ISLAM (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%);
WAR & CONFLICT (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%);
NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERRORISM (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ASHTON CARTER (69%)

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (89%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (89%)

COUNTRY: TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Joseph F. Traub, Computer Scientist, Dies at 83

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 905 words


Joseph F. Traub, who founded the computer science department at Columbia
University and who helped develop algorithms used in scientific computing in
physics and mathematics as well as on Wall Street, died on Monday in Santa Fe,
N.M. He was 83.

The cause could not be immediately determined, his wife, Pamela McCorduck, said.

Professor Traub took a detour from physics and became immersed in computing in
the 1950s, well before there was a discipline known as computer science.

As an educator, he was a skillful advocate, both for more resources and more
respectability for the young field at a time when the people grappling with the
big machines in computer centers were regarded in much of academia as glorified
mechanics.

He became the dean of the computer science department at Carnegie Mellon
University in Pittsburgh in 1971 and had built the faculty to 50 people from a
handful by 1979, when he left for Columbia, where he had been recruited to
become the founding dean of the new computer science department.

At Columbia, Professor Traub recalled in an interview in 2001, his challenge was
to ''convince one of the great arts and sciences universities in the United
States that computer science was really central.''

Not long after he arrived, he delivered a university lecture, ''What Will Be the
Intellectual Impact of Computers?'' His prescient answer, in essence, was that
the impact would be broad, deep and in ways that had not yet been imagined.

''Joe Traub was one of the first to recognize the potential of computer science
education at universities,'' said H.T. Kung, a professor at Harvard and a former
student of Professor Traub.

Professor Traub encouraged his peers to address the social and economic
implications of their work. He was the founding chairman of the Computer Science
and Telecommunications Board of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering
and Medicine, the nation's leading advisory group on science and technology, and
he served two terms as the head of the board, from 1986 to 1992 and again from
2005 to 2009.

Joseph Frederick Traub was born on June 24, 1932, in Karlsruhe, Germany, the
only child of Leo Traub and the former Mimi Nussbaum. Leo Traub was a banker in
Karlsruhe, but after the Nazis seized the bank in 1938, the family fled and
arrived in New York in 1939. Joseph attended the Bronx High School of Science
and earned an undergraduate degree in math and physics from City College of New
York.

He enrolled at Columbia in 1954, intending to become a theoretical physicist.
But a friend urged him to visit a building with a computer on 116th Street, near
the Columbia campus, then the home of the IBM Watson Labs.

''I got hooked on computing,'' Professor Traub recalled in an interview in 2011
for the Computer History Museum. ''I left physics, but I didn't enroll in a
department, because there were no departments of computer science, and I wanted
to study computing.''

But Columbia did have a ''committee on applied mathematics,'' with faculty
members from several departments. The committee allowed Professor Traub to do
his Ph.D. thesis on computing calculations in quantum mechanics, which allowed
him to run programs for hours on an IBM 650 computer. ''I discovered that I
loved programming,'' he recalled. ''That was the beginning.''

Professor Traub's first marriage, to Susanne Traub, ended in divorce. In
addition to Ms. McCorduck, he is survived by two daughters from his first
marriage, Claudia Renee Traub and Hillary Ann Spector, and four grandchildren.

In the early days of computing, the machines were hulking but their capabilities
-- processing, storage and memory -- were minuscule compared with today's
computers, so designing software algorithms to do the most work with the least
use of computing power was crucial. Programmers always tried to do that, but
there was no theory of optimal algorithms.

Professor Traub focused on that challenge -- first at Bell Laboratories, which
he joined in 1959, and later, starting in 1970, in academia. This study of the
minimal resources required to solve computational problems was called
''computational complexity.'' And Professor Traub added the insight that the
optimal algorithm design depended on the information it was working on, which
became known as ''information-based complexity.''

He also helped develop software tools used to value financial derivatives.

Over the years he worked with a number of collaborators, most notably Henryk
Wozniakowski, a professor at Columbia and the University of Warsaw.

Prabhakar Raghavan, a computer scientist at Google, called Professor Traub ''a
hard-core theorist,'' but one with insights that apply to areas attracting huge
investment today by technology companies, including cloud computing and machine
learning, a branch of artificial intelligence.

In recent years, Professor Traub had been doing research to apply similar
principles to a new terrain of complexity, quantum computers. In theory, quantum
computers would be unconstrained by the on-off switches, the 1's and 0's, of
digital computing.

Professor Traub pursued the quantum research despite long odds of seeing it to
completion.

''I've always admired him for tackling such a hard research area,'' said
Jeannette M. Wing, a computer scientist in Microsoft's research laboratory,
''especially knowing that he would be unlikely to see a practical quantum
computer in his lifetime.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/27/science/joseph-traub-who-helped-bring-computer
-science-to-universities-dies-at-83.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: While working on his thesis, ''I discovered that I loved
programming,'' Joseph Traub recalled. ''That was the beginning." (PHOTOGRAPH BY
EILEEN BARROSO/COLUMBIA ENGINEERING)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); MATH & SCIENCE
EDUCATION (90%); PHYSICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES
& UNIVERSITIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTATIONAL
RESEARCH (78%); HISTORY (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH
(70%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA
(79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russian Tourists Gain Appreciation for the Motherland

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sophia Kishkovsky, Alexandra Odynova, and Nikolai
Khalip contributed reporting from Moscow.&#xA0

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1125 words


VYATSKOYE, Russia -- The tourists streamed out of the tall white bus onto an
asphalt parking lot in the middle of this spruced-up village. Wearing sun hats
and wielding cameras, they peered into the gardens of brightly painted houses
and listened to a tour guide talk about enterprising peasants.

They were Russians vacationing in Russia, a sight that has become ever more
common since a fall in the ruble that started late last year put foreign
vacations out of reach of many in the middle class.

And while that may be causing a tinge of regret among Russian vacationers as the
season wanes, on this bus, in this town, the tourists were taking it in stride.

''Paris is O.K., but there's no place better than home,'' said Olga Korovina,
53, a businesswoman from nearby Yaroslavl with a camera around her neck who was
taking photographs of her friends in front of a restored 19th-century cabin. She
scrapped plans to drive through Europe this summer after the ruble's fall made
it too expensive.

One of the most profound changes in the lives of Russians since the fall of the
Soviet Union has been the ability to travel abroad. The shift opened up a closed
society, and as soon as they could afford it, Russians went. Foreign air travel
rose exponentially, and members of the expanding middle class filled beaches in
Turkey, Egypt, Tunisia and Thailand on package tours that became a symbol of
newfound affluence.

But last year, a tectonic shift occurred. After Russia's annexation of Crimea,
and the subsequent divorce from the West, officials in Russian security services
were encouraged not to travel abroad.

By summer, rank-and-file workers of state-owned companies began vacationing in
Russia in order to avoid annoying their bosses, whom politics -- and in some
cases economic sanctions -- prevented from traveling abroad, said Maya Lomidze,
executive director of the Association of Tour Operators of Russia.

By the end of the year, the ruble had slid to a historic low against the dollar,
and the suggestion that the security service workers not travel abroad had
turned into a ban that Ms. Lomidze estimated affected about 4 million people,
including family members.

The currency's loss has been the domestic tour industry's gain. Early estimates
indicate sales of domestic tours are up by nearly 20 percent this year, Ms.
Lomidze said, while foreign tours are down sharply. Sales to Thailand are down
by about half, and those to Greece are down by a third.

For Russians, vacationing in Russia has another benefit: It is good for their
country. Russia is awash in patriotism, stirred up by the government of
President Vladimir V. Putin, and vacations are not immune from the fervor.

The state tourism agency has trumpeted the rising numbers as evidence of
Russians' love for the motherland. In July, the Kremlin weighed delaying the
start of the school year so people could vacation longer.

And this month, Mr. Putin held a government meeting on domestic tourism in
Yalta, a town in Crimea, the Black Sea Peninsula that Russia annexed last year.
In Sochi, a resort on the Black Sea that has experienced the largest surge of
visitors, the Russian anthem is played through loudspeakers on the beach every
day. Videos show people in bathing suits getting to their feet out of respect.

Vyatskoye -- a village of restored houses from the 19th century about 165 miles
north of Moscow -- takes a subtler approach.

The museum's benefactors, an affluent couple from Yaroslavl, restored a house
for themselves in Vyatskoye some years back and decided to keep going.

There are now 10 museums, including one on the theme of Russian
entrepreneurialism featuring elaborate window frames, musical instruments and
old bricks. There are restored banyas (Russian saunas), wells with water whose
purity has not changed -- its proprietors say -- since it was first tested at
the turn of the century and a bright green house set up to look like a home from
the 19th century, when the village was populated by artisans who were experts
in, among other things, roofing and sculpture.

''It allows you to look a little differently at yourself and your country,''
said Oleg Zharov, the complex's benefactor, a mathematician in Soviet times who
said he made his money in purification systems for the oil industry and in real
estate.

Visitors have voted with their feet. More than 80,000 visited the complex last
year, Mr. Zharov said, enough to have it pay for itself for the first time in
the five years since it opened. He does not expect ever to make up the $20
million investment.

The museum complex includes a hotel and a restaurant, where the walls are dotted
with turn-of-the-century clocks. (In a nod to the patriotic mood, some salads
are named after religious and political leaders, including Nikolai Patrushev,
the current secretary of the Russian Security Council. Its main ingredients are
cherry tomatoes, pieces of beef and olives.)

Pavel Yegorov and his wife, Elena Yegorova, were sipping beer outside the
restaurant on a recent Tuesday after visiting four of the museums. They had left
their Moscow apartment before dawn to reach Vyatskoye in time for lunch, their
first stop in a week of travel around the Golden Ring, a series of picturesque
towns and cities in western Russia known for onion-domed churches and
fortresses.

Last year, they traveled by train through France and Switzerland. They loved it,
but they could not afford anything like that this year.

''Russia is cheaper!'' said Mr. Yegorov, grinning, when asked why they had come.

There were downsides. At breakfast, the only coffee was instant. The Internet
did not work in the hotel (though they did not need it anyway). The museums did
not open until 11 a.m., so they had to wait for two hours after breakfast.

Still, they were happy.

''This is ours, our native land,'' he said, reclining in a large plastic chair.
''Look, they gave me a pickle with my beer. In Geneva, they wouldn't have done
that.''

The museums were already open when the modern white tour bus arrived from
Yaroslavl, and the visitors pored over their contents. There was a big book of
confessions from the local church, old kitchen utensils and musical instruments,
even an old-fashioned dental drill.

''Joy isn't the word,'' said Olga Alexandrovna, a retired accountant who was
writing effusive comments in the guest book. ''It's spirituality. To see what we
were. To see what we were able to do.''

Ms. Korovina, the businesswoman, said learning about the past satisfied a
craving she and her friends were experiencing as Russians.

''Now Russians have really started to rise from their knees,'' she said. ''You
feel really proud, like you can spread your wings and your heart beats
stronger.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/europe/with-rubles-decline-russian-touri
sts-gain-appreciation-for-the-motherland.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Vyatskoye, Russia, museums feature restored houses, top
left, from the 19th century. Above, a tourist visits the ruins of a church in
the village. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL
(78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); TOURISM (78%);
DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS
BUREAUS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); SERVICE WORKERS (68%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); STATE OWNED
BUSINESSES (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); THAILAND (90%); UKRAINE (79%); TUNISIA (79%);
EUROPE (79%); EGYPT (79%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Great Expectations

BYLINE: By COLM TOIBIN.

Colm Toibin is the author, most recently, of ''On Elizabeth Bishop.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1521 words


PURITYBy Jonathan Franzen 563 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $28.  At the center
of Jonathan Franzen's new novel, ''Purity,'' is a young college graduate called
Pip, whose full first name, ­bestowed by her not-quite-sane mother, is Purity.
Pip is burdened by college debt, a lack of direction and a sharp intelligence;
she is also burdened by her mother, who has brought Pip up alone in a tiny cabin
in the Santa Cruz Mountains and now works at the checkout in a market. Pip's
general situation in a dead-end job is not helped by her obsession with a
married man who lives with his wife in the same house in Oakland as Pip and some
others. When Pip meets a nice boy in a coffee shop, a guy who seems to like her,
she leaves him alone in her bedroom in a state of some sexual arousal and stays
away for more than an hour while she fills in a questionnaire for a friend
downstairs. She seems surprised and becomes angry when she finds a text he sends
to another guy: ''U can have her # if you have a taste for weird.''

As Pip moves in and out of the book it may be that she is not weird enough; it
appears at first that she does not have sufficient substance to hold the
narrative. She can feel bad about herself and the world, she can be feisty, but
her sensibility is not rich enough and she is too passive to make her the main
character in a novel of this length. Or so it seems for the first half, before
the very weaknesses in her personality become essential to the novel's progress
and the reader's interest.

Pip's main complaint as the novel opens is that her mother will not tell her who
her father is, or indeed what her mother's real name is. No amount of searching
has helped her. This sense of a confused identity feeds into her general
confusion, and the growing sense for the reader that she is as much a pawn as a
personality.

The structure follows the same system as Franzen's earlier books ''The
Corrections'' and ''Freedom.'' A character is given a chunk of pages and many
scenes, then allowed to disappear, replaced by another character, only to
re-emerge later. In ''The Corrections,'' because it was the story of one family,
each perspective had a natural connection with the ones that came before and
after. Here the connections emerge slowly, with the help of an elaborate plot
that is chilling in its implications.

In the two earlier novels, Franzen included what seemed lengthy digressions or
meanderings, like the detailed accounts in ''The Corrections'' of a journey on a
cruise ship, or what it was like to run a restaurant or to try to make a quick
buck in Lithuania. In ''Freedom,'' there were long descriptions of women's
college basketball. In ''Purity,'' computer hacking and online journalism are
handled with the same sort of detail but are more necessary to how this book
unfolds.

''Purity'' is a novel of plenitude and panorama. Sometimes, there is too much
sprawl, but it can suggest a sort of openness and can have a strange, insistent
way of pulling us in, holding our attention. Like ''The Corrections'' and
''Freedom,'' this novel views its world and its characters as too interesting
and too filled with varying motives and fascinating intent not to want to
describe them with surges of energy and enthusiasm.

In ''Purity,'' however, Franzen has toned down the all-knowingness and the irony
that he used to full effect in ''Freedom,'' at the cost of making the sentences
here less elegant and sharp, more relaxed and anodyne. The book is written in a
sort of deliberate non-style that is chatty, colloquial, informative, unshowy.
Readers are unlikely to purr with pleasure when they encounter an explanatory
sentence like this parenthetical: ''(Even though the sufferer of guilt could
stop the suffering whenever she chose, simply by doing the right thing, the
suffering was still real while it lasted, and self-pity wasn't picky about the
kind of suffering it fed on.)'' Or a passage like this, which, even if it's
meant satirically -- mocking the general tone of Pip's office -- remains more
graceless than it needs to be: ''America put too much carbon into the
atmosphere, renewable energy could help with that, federal and state governments
were forever devising new tax inducements, the utilities were
indifferent-to-moderately-­enthusiastic about greening their image, a
gratifyingly non-negligible percentage of California households and businesses
were willing to pay a premium for cleaner electricity, and this premium,
multiplied by many thousands and added to the money flowing from Washington and
Sacramento, minus the money that went to the companies that actually made or
installed stuff, was enough to pay 15 salaries at Renewable Solutions and
placate its venture-capitalist backers.''

''Purity,'' in other words, depends more on story than on style. It can seem, in
fact, as though there is a battle going on in the novel between the slackness of
its style and the amount of sharp detail and careful noticing, especially
regarding Pip's role as a damaged innocent in need of rescue and redemption.
Most of the time, there is something oddly invisible about the style, so that
you do not notice it as the plot moves from event to event.

Besides Pip, two other characters dominate sections of the book. They are the
complex, flawed, charismatic and handsome Andreas Wolf, originally from East
Germany, now in Bolivia running the Sunlight Project. Wolf is alert to the fame
of his rivals in the world of poster-boy computer hacking, Edward Snowden and
Julian Assange. If Wolf is self-obsessed, manipulative and concerned with fame
and power, Tom Aberant, who runs an online investigative journalism site from
his home in Denver (where he lives with his fellow journalist Leila Helou), is
his polar opposite. He is quiet, dedicated and serious. Andreas and Tom met
briefly at the time of the fall of the Berlin Wall, long enough for them to
share a secret.

In what appears to be a set of loose coincidences, Pip ends up working first for
Wolf, spending time in his compound near Santa Cruz in Bolivia, and then for Tom
and Leila, living in their house in Denver. In both cases, Pip has a funny
destabilizing effect on those around her. Leila, unsure of the state of her
relationship with Tom, and uneasy about his feelings for Pip, becomes jealous.
In Bolivia, Pip moves from being obsessed with Wolf to toying with him sexually,
thus making all the young women who have flocked to work for him feel jealous
too. There are moments toward the middle of the book where it seems that Pip,
having caused a good deal of minor trouble, will finally go home to her mother,
who views her movements with immense trepidation, and that this will be a novel
about the sentimental and sexual education and the mild expectations of a young
and inexperienced young woman in the tough world of now -- that it will be, in
other words, the modern analog to ''Great Expectations'' that Pip's name and
circumstances suggest.

At the heart of the novel, however, is a murder, and it is this murder, and the
need to keep it covered up, that begin to animate the narrative. Slowly, it
emerges that Pip's ignorance of both her father's identity and her mother's real
name makes her immensely vulnerable, especially as Andreas Wolf, under pressures
of his own, becomes increasingly paranoid. This colorful use of plot, along with
the loose, inelegant style and the introduction of multiple subplots and side
characters, take their bearings less from Dickens than from Anthony Trollope,
and give ­''Purity,'' as it captures a society in a state of flux, a leisurely
19th-century appeal.

One of the most vivid sections of ''Freedom'' contains a character's private
autobiography. ''Purity'' uses the same device, and once more, this first-person
narrative seems the most compelling part of the book as Pip's father -- I will
not give his identity away -- writes about his years with her impossible and
willful mother in passages that are often brilliantly funny. These include a
graduation night when the narrator's ­mother, a woman with ­middle-American
cultural tastes, has to watch her son's girlfriend's experimental movie in which
scenes with a cow in a slaughterhouse are spliced with scenes where Miss Kansas
is crowned Miss America. ''I've had some rough days,'' the mother says. ''But I
think this has been the worst day of my life.''

This is a novel of secrets, manipulations and lies. Like Franzen's previous two
novels, it dramatizes the uneasy and damaging relationships between parents and
their offspring in white America, the strains within friendships, and the ways
time and familiarity and human failings work at corroding a marriage. It also
connects the private and domestic world with pressing public matters. It is, in
its way, an ambitious novel, in that it deals with the way we live now, but
there is also a sense of modesty at its heart as Franzen seems determined not to
write chiseled sentences that draw attention to themselves. He seems content
with the style of the book, whose very lack of poetry and polish seems willed
and deliberate, a statement of intent.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/jonathan-franzen-purity-review.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RAÚL ALLÉN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); FICTION LITERATURE
(89%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Four Floors, One Apartment

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG TICKET; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 475 words


A three-apartment penthouse combination, spanning the top four floors of the
Charles condominium at 1355 First Avenue, sold for $37.94 million and was the
most expensive closed sale of the week, according to city records.

The price is the highest ever paid for a home on the Upper East Side east of
Third Avenue, according to CityRealty, which tracks co-op and condo sales.

The common charges for PH1, an 11,740-square-foot quadruplex with 1,300 square
feet of private terraces on two levels and views that extend north, south and
from river to river, are $10,547 a month. Taxes are $4,048 a month, abated
through 2020.

The buyer, who was shielded under a limited liability company, CRE Acquisition
L.L.C., created the sprawling unit by combining the original duplex penthouse,
priced at $16.5 million, with the two contiguous floors beneath, one priced at
$10.81 million and the other at $10.63 million.

The three apartments, on floors 29 to 32, comprise a dozen bedrooms and 12 and a
half bathrooms. But according to a publicist for the Charles, the buyer, who is
American, is creating a custom configuration with 12-foot ceilings and a private
elevator.

''It's like having a townhouse, but with views and the services of an
ultraluxury condominium,'' said R. Ramin Kamfar, the chief executive of Bluerock
Real Estate, which is developing the project with the Victor Group.

The buyers were represented by Beth Benalloul of the Corcoran Group, who
declined to comment.

The Charles, a 27-unit glass-and-limestone condominium designed by Ismael Leyva,
is on First Avenue between 72nd and 73rd streets, a neighborhood with more
tenement-style walk-ups and postwar high-rises than ritzy townhouses and luxury
condos.

''There was always a line of delineation,'' said Ginger Brokaw, an associate
broker with Town New Development, who is handling sales at the Charles with
Jason Karadus, also of Town. ''West of Third was considered better than anything
east of Third.'' But now, with the Second Avenue subway underway, she said,
there has been ''a shift in luxury commercial and residential real estate toward
the East River.''

Units at the Charles have eat-in kitchens with Miele and Sub-Zero appliances,
soundproofing components like under-floor padding, and master bedroom suites
with dressing areas, walk-in closets and marble soaking tubs. Interior finishes,
designed by David Collins Studio, include white oak and marble floors.

Building amenities include a children's lounge, private storage, a fitness
center, a game room and 24-hour doormen and concierges. Five full-floor
four-bedrooms are still for sale from $6.58 million to $9.88 million.

Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/upper-east-side-penthouse-for-37-mi
llion.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 1355 First Avenue (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%);
RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); COMMERCIAL &
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (69%); COMMERCIAL
PROPERTY (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ZERO APPLIANCES (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%);
SIC3632 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATORS & HOME & FARM FREEZERS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Theater; She Only Looks Innocent

BYLINE: By STEVEN McELROY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 146 words


Genevieve Hulme-Beaman's dark and eerily transfixing play ''Pondling,'' seen at
the Edinburgh Festival Fringe a year ago, is headed to New York as part of the
annual Origin's 1st Irish Festival, which starts next week. The show, written
and performed by Ms. Hulme-Beaman, is about a young girl who at first seems
innocent enough, but soon her crush on an older boy brings out a darker side.

The 2015 1st Irish is the eighth installment of an important event that offers
New York theatergoers the chance to see fascinating new work, all by
contemporary Irish playwrights. The festival opener will be ''Little Thing, Big
Thing,'' from Fishamble: the New Play Company in Dublin. This thriller, about a
nun and an ex-con on the run together, comes to New York right after an
appearance at the 2015 Edinburgh Festival Fringe. (Wednesday through Oct. 4,
various locations; 1stIrish.org.)



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/theater/in-genevieve-hulme-beamans-pondling-a-
girl-who-only-looks-innocent.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Genevieve Hulme- Beaman in her one- woman show, ''Pondling.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL MCCARTHY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE
(88%); WRITERS (71%)

CITY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (88%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%)

COUNTRY: IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thai Police Make Arrest in Bombing of Shrine

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; Poypiti Amatatham contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 684 words


BANGKOK --  Thai security forces raided an apartment building in a Bangkok
suburb just before dawn on Saturday and arrested a foreign man the authorities
believe was involved in the deadly bombing of a Bangkok shrine nearly two weeks
ago.

The police said they had found bomb-making materials and stacks of fake Turkish
passports in the apartment. They did not announce the nationality of the
suspect, or his name.

The seizures and arrest were possibly the first major breakthroughs in an
investigation that has been criticized for its missteps and slow pace.

The Aug. 17 explosion at the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok's central shopping
district killed 20 people and was the worst attack of its kind in recent Thai
history. More than 100 people were wounded and close to three dozen remain
hospitalized.

Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung, the head of Thailand's national police force, said he
was confident that the suspect was linked to the bombing and said he appeared to
be part of a larger network.

''We believe some of them are on the run in the country and some of them may
have fled the country,'' he said.

General Somyot declined to discuss the motives of the group but said its members
were driven by a ''personal grudge on behalf of their friends.''

''It's not transnational terrorism,'' he said.

The Thai authorities have openly said that they are reluctant to describe the
attack as terrorism over fears that it would hurt the country's tourism
industry, a growing part of an economy that has struggled in recent years. More
than 20 million visitors have come to the country so far this year.

The shrine is especially popular among ethnic Chinese tourists from across East
Asia and more than half of the dead in the bombing were ethnic Chinese, raising
questions about the motive for the attack.

The Thai news media speculated Saturday that any Turkish connection to the blast
would increase the likelihood that the attack was in retaliation for Thailand's
forced repatriation of about 100 Uighurs to China in July. The Uighurs are an
ethnic minority in western China who speak a language related to Turkish.

The repatriation was widely criticized at the time by the United Nations and
Western governments because of the prospect that the Uighurs would face
persecution in China. Thailand's consulate in Istanbul was attacked soon after
the Uighurs were sent back.

But any Uighur connection to the blast remained far from certain on Saturday.
Copies of the passport used by the arrested suspect circulated on social media
Saturday and appeared to be a crude counterfeit of a Turkish passport. There was
no date of issue; instead ''Date of Expiry'' was repeated twice. Among at least
four misspelled words was Istanbul, using the wrong Turkish letters.

Thailand is a major production hub of fake passports, an underground industry
that churns out a wide range of travel documents.

The Thai authorities said they were contacting ''diplomats'' about the arrest on
Saturday but did not say from which country. They also said they had trouble
communicating with the suspect and were seeking interpreters.

Before Saturday, the police had said that they had few leads in the
investigation. Security cameras show a man in a yellow shirt placing a bag under
a bench at the shrine shortly before the explosion, which occurred during the
evening rush hour.

The man's movements across Bangkok were partly reconstructed by the authorities,
based on footage from other security cameras and interviews with taxi drivers.

The arrest on Saturday was made at an apartment in a predominantly Muslim
neighborhood in the northern suburbs of Bangkok. The police showed images of
numerous fuses, metal pipes and bags of ball bearings that resembled those used
in the blast.

The suspect began renting the apartment on July 31, the police said. The
bomb-making equipment recovered seemed to raise the possibility that the group
was planning further attacks.

The suspect was charged with possession of bomb-making materials and put under
military custody. Thailand has been under military rule since May 2014.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/asia/thai-police-announce-arrest-in-bang
kok-shrine-bombing.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS
(89%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BOMBS &
EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ETHNIC
GROUPS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); MINORITY GROUPS (68%); TOURISM (65%);
ETHNICITY (63%)

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (95%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%)

COUNTRY: THAILAND (95%); TURKEY (95%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

South African Captures Title and Ends Long Drought

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 275 words


Second-seeded Kevin Anderson of South Africa won his first professional title in
more than three years as he defeated the French qualifier Pierre-Hugues Herbert,
6-4, 7-5, in the Winston-Salem Open final in North Carolina on Saturday.

Anderson, ranked 15th, needed just 92 minutes to secure his third career ATP
World Tour tournament title -- his first since he won at Delray Beach, Fla., on
March 4, 2012.

Since then, Anderson had been winless in seven finals before Saturday's victory
at Wake Forest Tennis Center, including losses at Memphis, Tenn., and Queen's
Club in London this year.

In advancing to his first career ATP final, Herbert was playing his ninth match
in eight days. He would have been the first player in 19 years to win nine
matches en route to an ATP tournament title.

But Anderson hit 16 aces and broke Herbert's serve twice -- in the fifth game of
the first set and the 11th game of the second set.

KVITOVA VICTORIOUS Second-seeded Petra Kvitova won her second straight
Connecticut Open title in New Haven, topping fourth-seeded Lucie Safarova, 6-7
(6), 6-2, 6-2, in an all-Czech-Republic final.

It was the third time Kvitova had won the tournament, putting her one behind
Venus Williams and Caroline Wozniacki for the tournament record. Kvitova won in
2012, and she lost to Simona Halep in the 2013 final.

After dropping the first set in a tiebreaker, Kvitova broke Safarova's serve for
the first time in the third game of the second set. From there, she took
control.

In the doubles final, Julia Goerges of Germany and Lucie Hradecka of the Czech
Republic beat Chia-Jung Chuang of Taiwan and Chen Liang of China, 6-3, 6-1.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/tennis/connecticut-open-and-winston-sal
em-open-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TENNIS (78%);
SPORTS (78%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (76%)

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (58%)

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (91%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND
(56%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (77%); FLORIDA, USA (71%);
CONNECTICUT, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CZECH REPUBLIC (67%); GERMANY (65%); TAIWAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dieting: The Hunger Factor

BYLINE: By GARY TAUBES.

A health and science journalist and co-founder of the Nutrition Science
Initiative.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1427 words


TOWARD the end of the Second World War, researchers at the University of
Minnesota began a legendary experiment on the psychology and physiology of human
starvation -- and, thus, on hunger. The subjects were 36 conscientious
objectors, some lean, some not. For 24 weeks, these men were semi-starved, fed
not quite 1,600 calories a day of foods chosen to represent the fare of European
famine areas: ''whole-wheat bread, potatoes, cereals and considerable amounts of
turnips and cabbage'' with ''token amounts'' of meat and dairy.

As diets go, it was what nutritionists today would consider a low-calorie, and
very low-fat diet, with only 17 percent of calories coming from fat.

What happened to these men is a lesson in our ability to deal with caloric
deprivation, which means, as well, a lesson in any expectations we might have
about most current weight-loss advice, and perhaps particularly the kind that
begins with ''eat less'' and ''restrict fat.''

The men lost an average of a pound of body fat a week over the first 12 weeks,
but averaged only a quarter-pound per week over the next 12, despite the
continued deprivation. And this was not their only physiological reaction. Their
extremities swelled; their hair fell out; wounds healed slowly. They felt
continually cold; their metabolism slowed.

More troubling were the psychological effects. The men became depressed,
lethargic and irritable. They threw tantrums. They lost their libido. They
thought obsessively about food, day and night. The Minnesota researchers called
this ''semi-starvation neurosis.'' Four developed ''character neurosis.'' Two
had breakdowns, one with ''weeping, talk of suicide and threats of violence.''
He was committed to the psychiatric ward. The ''personality deterioration'' of
the other ''culminated in two attempts at self-mutilation.'' He nearly detached
the tip of one finger and later chopped off three with an ax.

When the period of imposed starvation ended, the subjects were allowed to
''refeed.'' At first they were allowed to eat more calories, but restricted as
to how much. A subset under continued observation was then allowed to eat to
satiety, which was surprisingly hard to achieve. The men consumed prodigious
amounts of food, up to 10,000 calories a day. They regained weight and fat with
remarkable rapidity. After 20 weeks of recovery, they averaged 50 percent more
body fat than they had when it began -- ''post-starvation obesity,'' the
researchers called it.

Implicit in many discussions of how best to lose weight is the assumption that
hunger, which is a consequence of caloric deprivation, is not an issue. Health
and government organizations tell the obese and overweight, who now make up just
over two-thirds of our adult population, to do what the study's subjects did:
Eat less, cut back on calories.

That advice implies that the ensuing hunger will be an easily bearable burden
(no depression, lethargy, irritability -- no tantrums, please!). And bearable
not just for 24 weeks, but a lifetime. The Minnesota experiment tells us that
when semi-starvation ends, the refeeding period will not end well.

This issue of how to diet, and how to lose weight, was in the news again
recently when a study was published by researchers at the National Institutes of
Health. The researchers confined their obese subjects (nine women, 10 men) to a
hospital ward and then put them on diets that approached semi-starvation,
feeding them an average of more than 820 fewer calories a day than they needed
to maintain their weight. They averaged about 1,920 calories a day, but one diet
was composed of foods that were 29 percent carbohydrates and 50 percent fat --
the carb-restricted diet -- and the other was composed of foods that were 71
percent carbohydrates and only 8 percent fat -- the fat-restricted diet.

The subjects were then required to eat these diets, not a calorie more or less,
for six days -- not 24 weeks.

An N.I.H. official hailed the study as providing ''invaluable evidence on how
different types of calories affect metabolism and body composition.'' Google
News referenced well over 200 entries about the study in the first three days
after publication.

What made the headlines? That the subjects lost more fat by restricting dietary
fat than they did by restricting the same number of carbohydrate calories.
''Scientists (sort of) settle debate on low-carb vs. low-fat diets,'' as The
Washington Post put it.

But the devil in nutrition studies is always in the kind of details that are
encapsulated by phrases like ''sort of.'' Whether the evidence was invaluable,
as the N.I.H. claimed, depends on a number of issues. Is the experience of six
days relevant to what happens over months, years or a lifetime? There's little
reason to think so. Can humans survive (and if so, for how long) on a diet of 8
percent fat? The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has
said 15 percent is the lower limit. And then is a diet with about 30 percent
carbohydrates sufficiently restricted to be considered a low-carb diet -- the
N.I.H. diet included blueberry muffins at breakfast, spaghetti at lunch and
wraps for dinner.

Those who argue publicly (as I do) that refined grains and sugars cause obesity
believe that losing meaningful weight requires far more significant changes in
the quality of carbohydrates consumed (far less refined) and in the amount (less
than 20 percent, perhaps less than 10).

Finally, what about hunger? By inflicting caloric deprivation for only six days,
the researchers seem to have made the implicit decision that hunger -- the
biological response to caloric deprivation -- is irrelevant to how we should
think about a weight-loss diet. That the subjects might be hungrier on one diet
than the other was also not addressed.

The low-fat diet of the N.I.H. experiment had significantly less fat (8 percent
vs. 17 percent) and only 350 more calories a day than the diet on which the
Minnesota researchers drove their conscientious objectors to the point of
character neurosis and mental breakdowns. The N.I.H. diet had more protein, too.
But the history of diet studies (and human populations) suggests that caloric
deprivation is unsustainable.

That humans or any other organism will lose weight if starved sufficiently has
never been news. The trick, if such a thing exists, is finding a way to do it
without hunger so weight loss can be sustained indefinitely. A selling point for
carbohydrate-restricted diets has always been that you can eat to satiety;
counting calories is unnecessary, so long as carbohydrates are mostly avoided.

But this advice raises a pair of obvious questions, or at least it should: If
people on low-carb diets eat less (the conventional explanation for any loss of
fat that ensues), why aren't they hungry? Where's the semi-starvation neurosis?
And if they don't eat less, why do they lose weight? It implies a mechanism of
weight loss other than caloric deprivation and suggests that the carbohydrates
and fats consumed make a difference.

Questions like these about the relationship between calories, macronutrients and
hunger have haunted nutrition and obesity research since the late 1940s. But
rarely are they asked. We believe so implicitly in the rationale of eat less,
move more, that we (at least those of us who are lean) will implicitly fault the
obese for their failures to sustain a calorie-restricted regimen, without ever
apparently asking ourselves whether we could sustain it either. I have a
colleague who spent his research career studying hunger. Asking people to eat
less, he says, is like asking them to breathe less. It sounds reasonable, so
long as you don't expect them to keep it up for long.

Much of the obesity research for the past century has focused on elucidating
behavioral techniques that could induce the obese to eat less, tolerate hunger
better, and so, by this logic, lose weight. The obesity epidemic suggests that
it has failed.

For those who believe that hunger is somehow all in the mind, rather than a
powerful biological response to caloric deprivation, it is tempting to wish on
them the fate that the goddess Ceres bestowed on King Erysichthon of Thessaly in
Greek mythology. She ''devised a punishment to rouse men's pity... to torment
him with baleful Hunger.'' Erysichthon then eats himself out of castle and
kingdom and ultimately dies by feeding, ''little by little, on his own body.''

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/diet-advice-that-ignores-hunger.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KAYBE BLEGVAD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARVATION (90%); NUTRITION (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); DIETING (90%);
OBESITY (89%); FAMINE (78%); OILS & FATS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); DIETITIANS &
NUTRITIONISTS (71%); HAIR LOSS (67%); SUICIDE (64%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Veggies Only, and No Tricks

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; AT THE TABLE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 584 words


Is there such a thing as vegetarian food for carnivores? Superiority Burger,
which opened near Tompkins Square in June, is a shoebox-size, white-tiled ode to
White Castle, with a chef who comes from the tonier, meat-oriented Del Posto.
The new restaurant's name alone would seem likely to deter the quinoa-faithful.

''This is what I always wanted to do: very accessible vegetarian food,'' said
Brooks Headley, one of the restaurant's partners, who previously sneaked
vegetables like eggplants and celery into the desserts he made as pastry chef at
Del Posto. Superiority Burger, which is open for dinner from Thursdays to
Mondays, has almost enough tables to seat the Brady Bunch; most people take
their food to go. Most dishes on the tiny menu come in either vegetarian or
vegan mode.

IN THE SEATS Meat-eating breeders! Mamie-Claire Cornelius and her husband, Rob
Laakso, perched at a bench table by the front window, two days after the due
date for their first child. Mr. Laakso fetched his wife lemon water from a jug.
The couple, who live in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, stopped in after wandering around
the neighborhood. ''This is our last meal, we figure, before the baby comes,''
said Ms. Cornelius, 34, who works on postproduction on films. Mr. Laakso, 36,
plays guitar in the band Kurt Vile and the Violators. ''I was like, it might be
a while before we have a chance to come out again,'' he said.

ON THE PLATES For nonvegetarians, the couple went deep into the small menu. Each
had a meatless Superiority Burger ($6), and they shared an order of kohlrabi and
apple slaw ($5) and a vegan Philadelphia cheese steak ($5). (Since the cheese
steak has neither cheese nor steak, perhaps we should make it clear that it's
seared yuba, green peppers and onions, and a cashew-based vegan pump cheese.)

Finally, Mr. Headley emerged from behind the counter with a dish of seared
Romano beans ($5). ''They're supposed to be like French fries, with salt and
vinegar,'' he said. Ms. Cornelius approved. ''The baby's kicking about that,''
she said.

They did not worry that the meal might induce childbirth. ''That'd be great if
it did,'' Ms. Cornelius said. Her husband agreed, saying, ''It'd be a good last
supper at the very least.''

WHAT THEY TALKED ABOUT Surely they talked about schemes to get their future
child into the right preschool, right? Wrong. ''I think we're O.K.,'' Ms.
Cornelius said. ''We're just kind of waiting.''

''Everyone's telling us to go out and enjoy ourselves, so that's what we're
doing,'' Mr. Laakso added.

In lieu of preparental hand-wringing, Ms. Cornelius said they talked about ''how
cute the tables were.'' She added, ''And the usage of space is really smart.''
The sound system segued from ''Warrior in Woolworths,'' by the 1970s British
punk band X-Ray Spex, to the Velvet Underground singing ''Head Held High''
(nothing says indie insouciance like a conspicuously weak Velvet Underground
song).

Ms. Cornelius finally broke down and admitted that they had talked about
celebrity birthdays that their baby might share. ''Yesterday,'' she said, ''was
Keith Moon.'' Her husband said: ''Yesterday had some good ones and tomorrow has
some good ones. Today I don't know.''

''Dave Chappelle is today,'' his wife reminded him.

''But today is Rollie Fingers and Rob Halford,'' Mr. Laakso said, referring to a
former Oakland A's relief pitcher and the singer in the heavy metal band Judas
Priest. ''I think that's pretty good company. Rollie Fingers, the best mustache
in baseball.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/superiority-burger-a-vegetarian-ode-t
o-white-castle-in-the-east-village.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rob Laakso, left, and Mamie-Claire Cornelius at Superiority
Burger
 below, from left, Robbie Lee, Matt Sweeney and Nadia Berenstein hanging out.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEAT FREE DIETS (92%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%);
PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deadly Crash Before Festival in Swaziland

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 291 words


JOHANNESBURG --  At least 38 girls and young women were killed in a crash while
traveling by truck to a traditional festival in Swaziland, a pro-democracy group
said on Saturday.

About 20 others were injured when the truck collided with another vehicle on
Friday, said the group, the Swaziland Solidarity Network. The women and girls
were said to have been in the back of the truck, the group said.

The police at first refused to give any information on the accident but later
disputed the death toll provided by the advocacy group. Only 13 people were
killed in the crash, said a police spokesman, Khulani Mamba.

The police discouraged reporting on the accident, the group said. Photographers
were prevented from taking pictures, said a journalist who insisted on anonymity
for security reasons.

''You don't hide a death,'' said Lucky Lukhele, spokesman for the Swaziland
Solidarity Network. Members of the Swaziland Defense Force alerted the group to
the accident, Mr. Lukhele said.

The women and girls were traveling on a highway between the Swazi cities of
Mbabane and Manzini when the truck carrying them smashed into another vehicle
and was then hit in the rear by a second truck, The Times of Swaziland newspaper
reported.

''We were about 50 on board the first truck that smashed into the Toyota van,''
said Siphelele Sigudla, 18, a survivor quoted by the newspaper.

The girls and young women were on their way to the Swazi king's residence for
the annual reed dance. About 40,000 participate in the ceremony at the royal
residence, a government website said. The king often selects one of the women to
become one of his wives. Swaziland, bordering South Africa and Mozambique, is
polygamous, and the king has more than a dozen wives.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/africa/38-people-killed-in-truck-crash-i
n-swaziland.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); JOURNALISM
(74%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (74%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES
(72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); WRITERS (69%)

CITY: MBABANE, SWAZILAND (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (74%)

COUNTRY: SWAZILAND (95%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SWAZILBAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

As the Stock Market Swings

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 449 words


By the close of the stock market on Friday, the recent ups and downs in share
prices had worked out to a mild correction. In all, the market was down 6.6
percent from its all-time high in May.

Yet it's hard to escape a vague sense of unease. The swoon that began a week
before last was quickly attributed, at least in part, to China's economic
problems. Just as quickly, many investors and policy makers concluded that
China's leaders would manage those problems in ways that would allow the global
economy to chug along. But what if they don't? A prolonged slowdown is more
likely to provoke social unrest in China than in other developed economies,
because stability there has been based on high growth rather than political and
other institutional arrangements. The prospect of social unrest, in turn, raises
economic and national-security concerns not raised by economic crises elsewhere.

Closer to home, market volatility has significantly reduced the odds that the
Federal Reserve will begin to raise interest rates at its next meeting in
mid-September. A delay is nothing to lament, because the still significant slack
in the labor market would make an increase this year premature. The Fed has
generally played down the potential impact of China and other international
headwinds, while asserting that the negative effects of low oil prices and a
strong dollar were likely to be temporary. But these forces are proving potent
and long lasting -- further reason to give the Fed pause.

Renewed stock market downdrafts could disrupt the economy, and the Fed's plans,
in other ways. The recovery in housing is an important gauge of economic health.
But this year, the big increases in sales and prices have come at the high end
of the market, where investment wealth is assumed to be more of a factor in the
decision to buy than wages and salary. The very real possibility is that if the
stock market falters again, so too will the housing market.

Economic fundamentals today are no different than they were before the market
took a walk on the wild side. Inflation is well below the Fed's target of 2
percent. Unemployment is still higher than it was before the last recession and
wages have shown no signs of rising. The economy is being propelled forward by
consumers and other advantages, and being held back by insufficient government
spending and other disadvantages.

It all works out to an economy growing at 2.5 percent. At that modest pace, the
United States cannot be of much help if other economies falter. But it can
rebound from a market swoon, at least for now.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/as-the-stock-market-swings.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (78%);
RECESSION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INFLATION (78%);
REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%);
EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC
GROWTH (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); OIL &
GAS PRICES (73%); SALES FIGURES (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (53%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(50%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Battle for Biomedical Supremacy

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 850 words


States from coast to coast are using public funds to help their medical schools
recruit scientific stars from other states or to prevent their own stars from
being lured away by lucrative offers. There have long been recruitment battles
among academic institutions, but today we're in the midst of what The Chronicle
of Higher Education calls a ''boom in academic poaching.''

Much of the frenzy has been driven by the outsize role of Texas, which has used
hundreds of millions of dollars in oil revenue to help its institutions poach
talent from other states. That is not necessarily a bad thing. Competition for
talent and more money to support research is good for the nation and for the
advancement of science.

New York's medical schools are feeling the heat. Over the past four years,
institutions in Texas have offered almost $40 million in research grants to
tempt scientists to leave New York. According to medical school leaders here, 11
states have programs to recruit biomedical talent. Along with Texas, they
include California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Utah and Virginia, although the programs of some are modest in
scale.

In one sweeping coup, Texas in 2011 recruited the head of a major program at the
Harvard-affiliated Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, Ronald DePinho, by
offering him a much more important job as president of the University of Texas
MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston and giving his wife, Lynda Chin, an $8
million support package and a job as scientific director. They brought with them
a retinue of 55 researchers. Another eminent researcher lured by Texas money was
Sean Morrison, a professor of pediatrics at the University of Michigan, who got
a grant of $10 million to move to the University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center at Dallas.

These big packages are aimed at supporting and expanding a scientist's research
with more staff members, equipment and supplies. The infighting among medical
schools can become bitter, and the tactics can be questionable. The University
of California, San Diego, has sued the University of Southern California for
allegedly conspiring with a noted Alzheimer's researcher, Paul Aisen, who
migrated to U.S.C. and brought with him an important cooperative study involving
dozens of research institutions. The suit doesn't challenge Dr. Aisen's right to
accept a better offer, but it accuses him and U.S.C. of stealing data that
belonged to the San Diego school by transferring it to an account with a hidden
password.

In New York, a consortium of all 16 medical schools is urging Gov. Andrew Cuomo
and the Legislature to invest $100 million a year for the next decade to recruit
outstanding scientists from other states and retain top scientists who are
already here but might be wooed by other states.

The consortium points to researchers who have been lost to Texas, the most
prominent of whom is James Allison, who moved from the Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center in Manhattan to MD Anderson, where he was given a $10 million
package to support his research. But Dr. Allison was a native Texan returning to
a state he loved; it is not clear that Sloan Kettering could have held on to him
even if it had matched the $10 million offer with the help of state funds.

Meanwhile, New York's medical schools have won their share of recruitment
battles. When the Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas offered a cancer
geneticist at Columbia University Medical Center, Ramon Parsons, a $4 million
package, he turned it down and took a top job at Mount Sinai's medical school in
Manhattan instead.

In the recent past, New York institutions could draw on two pots of state money
to help recruit and retain outstanding scientists, but both have dried up for
the moment. A faculty-development program awarded more than $36 million in
grants between 2002 and 2009, but it has awarded no grant money since then. The
state has also awarded grants of more than $372 million for stem cell research
since 2007, but no applications for money are currently being accepted. The
state needs to resume its spending on stem cell research, to which it claims to
be committed.

New York's medical school leaders argue that the state should invest a lot more
in its medical schools -- to ensure that they have a corps of extremely good
scientists and to generate a strong base of clinical and scientific knowledge
that can be exploited by private companies. Those arguments may be valid at some
upstate schools, but the medical schools in New York City appear able to hold
their own in the competition for top talent. They also have substantial
resources for generating new knowledge.

At a time when state and federal money for all sorts of worthy projects seems
limited, the state would be wise to adopt a more targeted approach by funneling
money to upstate schools and aiming the money toward both producing new
knowledge and transferring it to private companies.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/the-battle-for-biomedical-supremacy.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KIERSTEN ESSENPREIS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMEDICINE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS
(79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING
(78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); CANCER (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(73%); CONSPIRACY (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%);
LITIGATION (61%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%); M D ANDERSON CANCER CENTER (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (53%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%);
DALLAS, TX, USA (77%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); GEORGIA,
USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%);
MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Street

BYLINE: By BILL CUNNINGHAM

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 70 words


A highlight of the Newport coaching weekend was a luncheon given by Eaddo and
Peter Kiernan (No. 1) at their home, where the Frederick Law Olmsted gardens
have been restored to their original splendor. A tent for 200 guests was set
among the gardens that overlook Narragansett Bay. The 11 coaches from the
morning drive were parked on the lawn that sweeps down to the bay. Hats added to
the festivities.

Related article



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/bill-cunningham-garden-party.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL CUNNINGHAM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (73%)

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Drugs Add to a Quandary on Cholesterol

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MENDING HEARTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words


ROCHESTER, Minn. --  Doctors have long faced a conundrum in prescribing statins
to lower cholesterol and heart attack risk: The drugs are cheap and effective
for most people, and large, rigorous clinical trials have found minimal side
effects. But as many as 25 percent  of those who try them complain of muscle
pain. Others stop taking the drugs because, they say, they cause a hazy memory
or sleep problems, among other side effects not documented in studies.

Now, with the approval on Thursday of the second in a powerful -- and very
expensive -- new class of cholesterol-lowering drugs, the dilemma confronting
doctors just got trickier. Should the people who need to lower their
cholesterol, but say they cannot tolerate statins, be prescribed new drugs that
cost more than $14,000 a year, potentially adding  billions of dollars to the
nation's medical bill?

Doctors say their first responsibility is to patients, but it is hard for them
or their patients to forget the price of drugs meant to be taken for a lifetime.
The new drugs are approved for use by people with heart disease who cannot
control their LDL, the dangerous cholesterol, by other means. Doctors say they
try to work with patients to ensure that all who can safely take statins, many
of which cost pennies a day, do so, but a substantial portion of patients insist
the side effects are too severe.

At the Mayo Clinic here, Dr. Stephen L. Kopecky, who directs a program for
statin-intolerant patients, says he is well aware that middle-age and older
adults who typically need statins may blame the drugs for aches, pains and
memory losses that have other causes. He also knows his patients peruse the
Internet, which is replete with horror stories about the dangers of statins.

Yet he, like other doctors, also thinks some statin intolerance is real despite
what clinical trials have shown. The problem: In the vast majority of cases,
there is no objective test to tell real from imagined statin intolerance.

So what is he to do when patients insist they cannot take statins and he can
find no other reason for the symptoms they attribute to the drugs?

''How can I not believe them?'' he asks.

Experts say there is a pressing need for new cholesterol-lowering treatments.
Coronary heart disease accounts for one in seven deaths in the United States or
375,000 a year. About one in four American adults takes statins, pills that
block an enzyme needed to make LDL. The drugs are credited with helping save
many lives, but even among those taking statins, only 20 percent to 26 percent
of high-risk patients have LDL cholesterol levels below 70, a goal many doctors
strive for. And that does not count the many high-risk patients who cannot or
will not take statins. Estimates of their number range from one million to three
million.

Before the advent of the new drugs, injected antibodies that block an enzyme
involved in regulating levels of LDL, doctors had few options for
statin-intolerant patients other than suggesting lower doses or different and
less effective drugs. But now they will be able to offer the two new drugs --
Praluent, made by Sanofi Regeneron and approved by the Food and Drug
Administration last month, which costs $14,600 a year, and Repatha, made by
Amgen and approved Thursday, at $14,100 a year.

The medicines can slash LDL to levels almost never before seen in adults.
Although the drugs seem remarkably safe and free of side effects, large studies
to test their safety and efficacy in preventing heart attacks, strokes and
cardiovascular deaths are still underway. Results are not expected until 2017.

The looming bill for the new drugs, said Peter J. Neumann, a health economist at
Tufts Medical Center in Boston, ''raises questions about how much we are willing
to pay for effective innovation in the face of uncertainty about long-term
effects and questions of affordability.''

Insurers are also worried about higher drug costs pushing up premiums,
economists say.

''We've reached a point where patients are increasingly facing five- and
six-figure price tags for medications that they will take over the course of
their lifetimes,'' said Matthew Eyles, an executive vice president for America's
Health Insurance Plans, the national trade association for the insurance
industry. ''If this is the new normal to treat common and chronic conditions,
how can any health system sustain that cost?''

Doctors with patients who maintain they are intolerant to statins say they are
confronted with a clash between the art and the science of medicine.

Dr. Peter Libby, a doctor and researcher at Brigham and Women's Hospital in
Boston, said that in his role as a physician, ''the patient is always right.''
But, he added, ''as a scientist, I find randomized, large-scale, double-blind
studies more persuasive than anecdote.''

The statin trials, which involved tens of thousands of people, found no more
muscle aches, the most common complaint, in patients who took statins than in
those who took placebos.

The widely held belief that statins affect memory also has not been borne out in
clinical trials, said Dr. Jane Armitage of the University of Oxford. She and her
colleagues studied memory problems in 20,000 patients randomly assigned to take
a statin or a placebo. ''There was absolutely no difference,'' she said.

In a separate study, they looked at mood and sleep patterns and again found
statins had no effect. Another study, in Scotland, detailed cognitive testing of
older people taking statins or a placebo, and also found no effect.

About one in 10,000 patients did have a dangerous complication, rhabdomyolysis,
that involves the breakdown of muscles. It almost always occurred with the
highest doses of statins and in patients who were also taking drugs that
interact with statins, including a class called fibrates that interfere with the
body's elimination of statins. The condition can be detected with a blood test
for a muscle enzyme, creatine kinase, that is released by damaged muscles and
when it occurs patients must stop statins immediately.

There appears to be a small increase in diabetes in statin patients, first
reported in a 17,000-patient, multiyear study known as Jupiter that studied
rosuvastatin. The same problem was later verified with other statins.

In Jupiter, 3 percent of those taking rosuvastatin developed diabetes during the
trial, compared with 2.4 percent of those taking a placebo. Those who got
diabetes started out with elevated blood sugar levels or other major risk
factors for diabetes. Statins appeared to slightly accelerate development of the
disease -- diabetes emerged about 5.4 weeks sooner, said Dr. Libby, a trial
investigator. But, he added, those taking statins did not appear to get diabetes
that would not have occurred anyway.

Nonetheless, Dr. Kopecky and others continue to question whether the reassuring
clinical trial data truly reflects patients' experience. One issue is the
so-called run-in periods in which potential clinical trial participants are
given experimental drugs before a trial begins to eliminate those who have
problems with the drugs.

Most statin studies, though, enrolled people without this prior testing,
randomly assigning them to take a statin or a placebo, Dr. Armitage said. In
every case, there was no difference in side effects between those taking the
statin and those taking a placebo.

Another criticism is that clinical trials excluded all but the healthiest
people. Dr. Armitage disputed that idea. ''Very often people were elderly,'' she
said. ''Very often they had heart disease. Very often they had diabetes. It
makes me very upset to hear that somehow the people in the trials are not real
people.''

Five very real patients, all with a high risk of heart attacks, came one recent
day to see Dr. Kopecky at the Mayo Clinic. They had tried statins and given up,
complaining of side effects including muscle aches, digestive problems and, in
one case, random thoughts. Dr. Kopecky suggested that three of them try the new
drug Praluent.

Kathryn Peterson, 72, had a heart attack in March and needs to get her
cholesterol level way down, but she said statins made her legs so weak she could
not climb the steps in her two-story house. She tried another statin, and then
another, and had the same reaction.

''Then I said, 'That's it. I am not going to try any more,' '' she said.

Dr. Kopecky was troubled. Ms. Peterson has multiple sclerosis, breast cancer and
osteoporosis. A heart attack five months ago raises her risk of another.

''We know your cholesterol is incredibly high,'' Dr. Kopecky said. ''We have to
start you on something.''

He suggested Praluent, and she reluctantly agreed.

''I'm not jumping for joy,'' Ms. Peterson said. ''Five years from now, bad side
effects might emerge or I might turn out to have an allergic reaction.''

''Being first is not something I wanted to do.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/health/new-alternatives-to-statins-add-to-a-qu
andary-on-cholesterol.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Stephen L. Kopecky at the Mayo Clinic this month with
Kathryn Peterson, a patient who has had trouble taking statins. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOLESTEROL (94%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (91%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS
(91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEART DISEASE
(89%); ADULTS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS
(78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); DRUG PRICES (73%); SLEEP (71%); APPROVALS
(70%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (64%); ENZYMES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (82%)

CITY: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (74%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stewart Response Is Criticized

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | AUTO RACING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 124 words


A lawyer for Kevin Ward Jr., a driver who was killed when he was hit by Tony
Stewart's racecar last year, said Stewart's legal claims in response to a
lawsuit were ''appalling.''

The lawyer, Mark Lanier, said in an email that five other cars drove around Ward
during a yellow caution flag before Stewart ''revved his engine and ran him
over.'' Ward's family sued Stewart this month for damages, accusing Stewart of
gross negligence in the August 2014 accident, at Canandaigua Motorsports Park in
upstate New York. Stewart's lawyer, Brian Gwitt, said in court papers Friday
that Ward was impaired by marijuana at the time.

â-  Will Power won the pole for Sunday's IndyCar race, which will decide the
season title, at Sonoma Raceway in California.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/autoracing/stewarts-response-to-lawsuit
-is-criticized.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LAWYERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); AUTO RACING
(88%); DAMAGES (88%); NEGLIGENCE (72%); MARIJUANA (51%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sailor Falls Ill After Rio Event

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | OLYMPICS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 77 words


Organizers of the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics said they were ''extremely
concerned'' after the German sailor Erik Heil became ill after his third-place
finish at a test event there.

Heil, who was being treated in a Berlin hospital for several infections, said he
was convinced that they had been caused by the polluted water, piling more
pressure on organizers to secure the safety of the athletes in next year's
Olympic sailing, swimming and triathlon events.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/sailor-falls-ill-after-rio-event.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); 2016 RIO SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%);
SAILING (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION (85%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (71%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Belgian in Coma After Crash

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | CYCLING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 73 words


The Belgian rider Kris Boeckmans was in an induced coma after sustaining a
concussion and facial fractures in a crash during the eighth stage of the Vuelta
a España on Saturday.

Tejay van Garderen of the United States broke his shoulder in the crash and
withdrew from the race.

Jasper Stuyven of Belgium won a sprint finish by a bike length to claim the
113.4-mile stage in 4 hours 6 minutes, and Esteban Chaves retained the leader's
jersey.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/cycling/belgian-in-coma-after-crash-at-
vuelta.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACIAL INJURIES (85%); BRAIN INJURIES (85%)

COUNTRY: BELGIUM (91%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Leads as Sun Sets

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | GOLF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 193 words


Austin Ernst of the United States took the lead at 10 under par before darkness
forced the suspension of third-round play in a weather-delayed L.P.G.A. event in
Prattville, Ala.

Ernst was one under through four holes on the Senator Course. She passed the
second-round leader, Yani Tseng, who had a bogey on the fourth hole to drop to
nine under.

â-  Rod Spittle of Canada shot a six-under 66 to take a one-shot lead through
the second round of the Dick's Sporting Goods Open, a Champions Tour event in
Endicott, N.Y. Spittle, 60, was at 10-under 134.

â-  Thomas Pieters of Belgium shot a seven-under-par 65 to take a one-stroke
lead through the third round of the Czech Masters in Vysoky Ujezd. Pelle Edberg
produced a flawless round of five under, with five birdies, to sit a shot back.

â-  John Daly collapsed near the end of a round in a small tournament near
Jackson, Miss., and was taken to a hospital. A club pro said Daly, 49, had been
having trouble with the 90-degree heat and had experienced some difficulty
breathing before he was taken to the hospital.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/golf/american-leads-in-alabama-as-sun-s
ets.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS
& RECREATION (77%)

COMPANY: DICK'S SPORTING GOODS INC (56%)

TICKER: DKS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (56%); SIC5091 SPORTING &
RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES (56%)

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Sharing Baseball's Joys, Mourning Something Lost

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU.

Eric Lichtblau is a reporter in The Times's Washington bureau.

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1391 words


With our road trip just days away, I was having second thoughts. Was this going
to be too much baseball? I asked my son. ''No such thing as too much baseball!''
he answered. I smiled. We were ready.

The last time I did this, a number of concrete, cookie-cutter stadiums still
dotted the country, Pete Rose's legend was still untainted and Barry Bonds was
still a skinny kid making a name for himself in Pittsburgh. That was the summer
of 1987, when two buddies and I set off in a rusted-out Chevy station wagon,
determined to hit every baseball stadium we could between New York and
California.

This would be a truncated version: eight games in eight days, covering five
cities, six stadiums and 1,800 miles from Washington, D.C., to Chicago and back.
I would have to do all the driving this time; my traveling companions -- my two
young sons -- aren't old enough to drive. My wife, a psychologist, looked at me
as if I'd lost my mind, the appeal of cruising the Rust Belt in search of
baseball games somehow lost on her. But the boys, who had been tracking
potential pitching matchups for weeks, couldn't wait. ''Stadium hot dogs and
hamburgers for a week!'' screamed Andrew, 12, as we loaded into the car.

I wanted them to remember this trip years from now in happy Technicolor tones,
the same way I remembered my own postcollege trek. But beneath the Norman
Rockwell veneer, I knew that the game itself had changed in the three decades
since then, and not always for the better.

Fans of the Home Team Wherever

''You're a long way from home,'' the woman at the ticket window in Cincinnati
said as she glanced at my driver's license. Indeed we were, but for the next
three hours, the boys bled Cincinnati red, whooping it up like fans at a W.W.E.
match as two bench-clearing brawls erupted. Wherever we were, we adopted the
home team as our own, leaving our Nationals colors at home. (Not hard, the way
the Nats have been playing.) In Milwaukee, we were die-hard Brewers fans for a
night, schmoozing with the former slugger Gorman Thomas as he peddled barbecue
sauce. In Chicago, the boys hollered along with the White Sox fans as a
bases-loaded walk won the game in extra innings. In Cleveland, we were Indians
converts, as the Tribe pummeled the Twins with 17 runs. And by the time we got
to Pittsburgh, they were proud ''Bucs'' in new Andrew McCutchen T-shirts, as
''Cutch'' homered.

On my '87 trip, I'd scribbled game highlights in a bound journal; now, Matthew,
14, wrote them up in real time, posting them on his website for friends back
home. The parks had changed significantly since then, too. Gone were the
soulless, multipurpose stadiums so common in that era, replaced by architectural
marvels like Miller Park in Milwaukee and PNC Park in Pittsburgh. These weren't
mere stadiums; they were veritable theme parks, with whiffle-ball fields, ''fun
zones,'' batting cages, pitching contests and almost anything a kid could want
if he got bored with the game. Missed a play while off shagging whiffle balls?
No worry: catch the replay on the Jumbotron in center field. ''You know, when I
was growing up,'' I said at one game, ''the stadiums didn't even have ----''

''No, not again,'' the boys broke in.

They lapped it all up. The passion for baseball that my father had passed down
to me as a kid, taking me each summer to Yankee Stadium near his boyhood home in
the Bronx, I was now passing on to my own children. ''I decided,'' Andrew
announced in Milwaukee, ''that in 30 years, I'm going to take you and my kids on
a baseball trip just like this!''

Yet as I took all this in, I realized there was something lost, something
intangible, and it was the innocence of the game itself. Even at their age, my
boys seemed more jaded about the game than I had ever been in watching Don
Mattingly and Orel Hershiser back in '87. They had become jaded by the steroid
scandals, by the inflated salaries, by the pampered athletes, by the selling of
the game to corporations that paid millions to slap their names on all those
beautiful new stadiums. Take me out to U.S. Cellular Field, anyone?

It's a bit facile to look back on a simpler, less tarnished time in baseball.
The truth is there has always been shame and disgrace in the game, whether it
was the 1919 Black Sox scandal, the decades-long ban on black players, or the
occasional dust-up in my youth over spitballers. But the notion that something
deeply corrosive had eaten away at today's game became unavoidable as I examined
the game through my sons' eyes.

In the Black Sox scandal almost a century ago, in which players conspired to fix
the World Series, a boy's plaintive plea -- Say it ain't so, Joe -- resonated so
deeply because fans were shocked to discover their heroes were cheating. Now the
surprise for my kids is to find the players who are clean.

At every stop, we watched someone tainted by performance-enhancing drugs,
whether it was the Brewers' Ryan Braun, the Reds' Marlon Byrd or the White Sox'
Melky Cabrera -- the kids knew about all of them and freely aired their
suspicions about others. ''Must be on steroids,'' they would say of a hitter
showing surprising pop. Or ''His shipment hasn't come in,'' they would say of a
slumping hitter batting .198 while making $15 million.

Outside the park in Milwaukee, we stopped at Hank Aaron's statue. Hammerin' Hank
broke Babe Ruth's hallowed homer mark when I was a kid. I told the boys how
clearly I remembered Al Downing serving up the pitch that led to No. 715.
''Aaron should still be considered the home run champ, not Barry Bonds,''
Matthew remarked as we gazed up at the statue. Sadly, he had never known the
lightning-fast, five-tool Bonds I remembered. The only Bonds he knew was the
bulked-up one accused of doping his way to 762 home runs.

In Cincinnati, we walked past a mural of the Big Red Machine, the best team of
my youth. There was Pete Rose. My kids know him because of his 4,256 hits -- but
they also know him because he was the guy who bet on baseball. ''He should still
be in the Hall of Fame -- lots of guys cheat and get in the Hall,'' Andrew said
matter-of-factly. Cynical as it was, it was hard to argue with his rationale.

For all the controversies, the kids still had their heroes -- at least until we
got to Wrigley Field.

A Hard Lesson

Andrew had idolized Buster Posey, the San Francisco Giants catcher, ever since
he came back from a season-ending injury in 2011 to win the Most Valuable Player
Award the next year. A pair of Cubs-Giants games we would see at Wrigley Field
were marked on Andrew's calendar for weeks, and he came to the park in one of
his Posey jerseys and Giants cap, waving an orange sign he made reading: ''Posey
for Prez!''

It wasn't a good night for the Giants, with Posey flying out to seal a loss.
Afterward, Andrew waited excitedly at a hideaway in the stadium where I'd heard
visiting players sometimes emerged after showering to catch the bus. Sure
enough, 20 minutes later, a tall, bearded man walked out alone. ''Mr.
Bumgarner!'' Andrew yelled. ''Can I get your autograph?'' Smiling, Bumgarner,
the M.V.P. of last year's World Series signed balls and caps for Andrew, Matthew
and three other boys nearby. Four other Giants soon followed and did the same.
Then came Posey, security guards at his side. ''Mr. Posey! Mr. Posey!'' Andrew
yelled. ''Could I get your autograph?'' I held the ''Posey for Prez!'' sign over
his head. The All-Star waved him off. He always seemed to be smiling in his
commercials, but now he just looked annoyed as he walked away. ''Maybe he's just
having a bad night,'' I offered.

The next day, after another Giants loss, Andrew was back at the same spot,
waiting and hoping for a different result. Again, Posey walked right past the
handful of boys pleading for an autograph. He didn't even look up this time.
''What a jerk,'' Andrew said. I was still holding his ''Posey for Prez!'' sign.
Andrew grabbed it out of my hand, crumpled it up and stuffed it into a garbage
can outside Wrigley.

Somewhere amid the trash was a life lesson for a crushed 12-year-old about the
way heroes can disappoint us. But that could wait for another day. We had a game
the next night in Cleveland, 350 miles away, and we needed to hit the road. The
Indians were giving away Michael Brantley bobbleheads, and we wanted to get
there early.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/in-sharing-baseballs-joys-mour
ning-something-lost.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The author with his sons Andrew, left, and Matthew at a
Milwaukee Brewers game during an eight-game, eight-day trip to five cities and
six stadiums. DRAWING (DRAWING BY BOB ECKSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); DRIVERS LICENSES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%)

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA
(79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%);
ILLINOIS, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Laden Voyage

BYLINE: By KATY SIMPSON SMITH.

Katy Simpson Smith is the author of two novels, ''The Story of Land and Sea''
and the forthcoming ''Free Men.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1025 words


LANDFALLSBy Naomi J. Williams 315 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $26.  When the
explorers in ''Landfalls'' confess their purpose -- ''We were
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. ready below with maps outspread and the
journals of our predecessors open to the relevant pages, ready on deck and aloft
with our keen young eyes and burnished telescopes'' -- they also describe the
parallel joys of history and fiction, those most sympathetic bedfellows. Both
demand an engagement with humanity that must skate across time and space to
achieve any sort of context, any degree of relevance or reach. The best kind of
historical fiction, then, should involve intelligence, experimentation, boldness
and curiosity.

These traits are all in evidence in Naomi J. Williams's ambitious and meticulous
debut, which follows the trail of the LapÃ©rouse expedition, a late-18th-century
voyage of discovery that took more than 200 men across two oceans and ended in
the disappearance of both of its French frigates, the Boussole and the
Astrolabe.

The narrative begins in Europe as the ships are outfitted for a journey that's
expected to take several years and will round South America, skirt the
California coast and island-hop in the South Pacific. The men of the expedition
are scientists; their aim is to find anything that hasn't yet been found,
whether it's the Northwest Passage or a rare parasite. These mariners are
tracked in self-contained chapters ranging from London to Alaska to Macao, seen
from the perspectives of Tlingit girls and Spanish missionaries and French naval
engineers, their words preserved through letters, reports, journals and other
artifacts.

Though it enters the world as a novel, I have the impression that ''Landfalls''
never seems quite comfortable with that billing. Increasingly perturbed by the
absence of cohesion, I came to realize that the problem wasn't in the material
but in the label. At its heart, Williams's book is a brave pastiche of mostly
true stories that overlap and jar, conveying the confusion of history more
accurately than most fiction: as a series of competing projects, as a cacophony
of voices for which there's rarely a direct translation, as a negotiation over
power that's more fluid than we might have believed.

Taken on those terms, it's natural that some stories should be more successful
than others. The weaker chapters in ''Landfalls'' suffer additionally from their
positioning as part of a larger novelistic arc. But at her best, Williams
recalibrates the predicted narrative, turning the telescope or microscope (these
intrepid savants use both) toward the unexpected corners of a scene. In a
Tlingit child's retelling of one tragic episode, a tribal elder spots the French
ships in the harbor and announces the arrival of a great raven -- a classic
rendering of American Indians' ''simplicity'' in the face of the unknown. Yet
the narrator acknowledges the greater truth: ''Although we knew Grandfather
could not see and that the canoes were canoes and not a raven, no one can say,
Grandfather, you are blind, you are wrong.'' Williams also dips into the voice
of the abused wife of a Spanish official through a letter home that includes the
insertions and erasures of her censoring husband. The finest chapter, ''The
Report,'' hints at a violent incident by stripping down layers of detail to get
at the grief and confusion of a bereaved -- though perhaps complicit -- officer
on the Astrolabe.

Williams's approach resonates most when she brings emotion to the fore, when she
lets particularity give rise to universality. Take the elderly woman at a civil
records office, where ''the room manages to be both airless and cold, the light
dim, the long oak table too high, the chairs hard and too low, the registry book
a dense, cube-like tome, hard to open, and the handwriting in it crabbed and
spidery. I end up standing and leaning over the table to get the proper distance
from the page. My right hip aches with the effort.'' In a similar elevation of
physical detail, an officer documents the loss of his shipmates: ''The humidity
makes writing difficult. The ink grows viscous, the paper sticks to my hand.''

The research apparent in these stories is both Williams's strength and her
crutch. She recognizes the neat historical fact, the image that ignites
curiosity or wonder, and, indeed, there are wondrous things aplenty here. She
excels at descriptions of landscapes that, alien to the French observers, become
alien to us. When she recounts the deployment of a hot-air balloon off the
Chilean coast, there's no distance between the onlookers' awe and our own. But
these sorts of details can also obscure the characters, and the intricacies of
the 18th-century moment can run away with a scene, turning what should be a
thrilling account of discovery into little more than a ship's log. What I got
was the cloth-Â­covered buttons on a coat, maritime dipping needles, the
wife-sharing customs of the Chukchis; what I wanted was genuine human yearning,
emotional heat. There's a mystery to life -- to any interaction between people
of any era -- that an accumulation of research can inadvertently scrub clean.
Not fully placing her trust in the reader, Williams can spell out trains of
thought to the point where the narrative becomes flattened, allowing no dark
corner for the reader to inhabit, no gaps to imagine herself into. Simple
exchanges can read like stage directions: ''LapÃ©rouse groaned. Eleonora turned
to the steward. They exchanged some words, her face troubled and stern, his
wearing a wry smile. She turned back to her guests.''

As in most adventurous endeavors, Williams's lapses cannot take away from the
courage of her overall vision. Both disjunctive and rigorous, ''Landfalls''
confirms that history and literature share a fundamental exploratory impulse.
''Discover much,'' the naturalist Joseph Banks advises one of LapÃ©rouse's
engineers. ''Write everything down. And then, come back. It's very important
that some of you come back.'' As Williams demonstrates in the best of her
stories, it's in the coming back that observation develops into interpretation
and art can be formed.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/landfalls-by-naomi-j-williams.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (89%); HISTORY (77%); MARINE
VESSELS (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); ENGINEERING (64%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); ALASKA, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); SOUTH AMERICA (55%); EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hanna Siegel, Shane Hoffman

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 123 words


Hanna Lynn McDaniel Siegel, a daughter of Susan H. McDaniel and David M. Siegel
of Rochester, was married Saturday evening to Shane Michael Hoffman, the son of
Cheryl L. Hoffman of Lincolnshire, Ill., and Richard S. Hoffman of Highland
Park, Ill. Rabbi Kelly Levy officiated at the Bristol Harbour Resort in
Canandaigua, N.Y.

The bride, 30, is the deputy director of the Partnership for a New American
Economy, which seeks immigration reform. She graduated from Duke and has a
master's in public policy from Harvard.

The groom, 33, is the director of program planning and scheduling in New York
for Condé Nast Entertainment, which produces web videos. He graduated from the
University of Wisconsin and is studying for an M.B.A. at N.Y.U.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/hanna-siegel-shane-hoffman.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HERNANDEZ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); IMMIGRATION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Shortstops Share Journey: Small Island to Big Leagues

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 829 words


ATLANTA -- The first time Andrelton Simmons set eyes on Didi Gregorius, what he
noticed was not Gregorius's strong throwing arm, his fleet feet or anything he
did with a bat in his hands. They were, after all, only 5 years old.

''It was the green shirt,'' Simmons said with a laugh.

The reason it stood out is because it was long-sleeved, and in Curaçao, the
Caribbean island where they grew up, the weather was so warm that all year round
there was rarely a reason to wear a shirt with short sleeves, let alone long
ones. So the new kid, who had just moved from the Dutch mainland to the island,
an autonomous Dutch territory, stood out.

''Nobody wears long sleeves at home,'' Simmons said. ''I guess it was cold in
the Netherlands.''

Just as Simmons cackled when recounting the story in the home clubhouse at
Turner Field, Gregorius chuckled when it was relayed to him in the visitors'
clubhouse. He still wears long sleeves, even earlier this summer when the
weather was sweltering during a visit to Texas.

When Gregorius and Simmons reunite, old stories are not all that they share.
There is also the satisfaction of the journey they have taken coming from an
island of 154,000 -- about three-fourths the population of Yonkers -- to
establish themselves as starting shortstops in the major leagues.

Simmons, who has won two Gold Gloves with the Atlanta Braves and is widely
considered the best defensive shortstop in baseball, and Gregorius, who has
begun to fulfill his considerable promise in his first season with the Yankees,
formed a double-play combination on most of the youth teams they played on while
growing up.

''I mean, it's crazy,'' Simmons said. ''The guy right next to you, we're right
here together.''

It was with a point of pride that Gregorius interrupted an interview to scroll
through his phone to find an old newspaper clipping that he had photographed and
posted on his Twitter account a couple of years ago. It is a list of the top
hitters in their youth league, with their batting averages, from 1998, when the
boys were 8. It also includes Jonathan Schoop, now with the Baltimore Orioles.
They also played with Dodgers reliever Kenley Jansen and the former major league
pitcher Jair Jurrjens.

''For me, it's awesome, because we've been playing with each other since we were
little,'' said Gregorius, who, like Simmons, is 25. ''The same thing when I see
Jonathan Schoop. We see how hard we worked to get here, so it's always great to
see each other and talk a little before the game and during the game.''

There was plenty for Gregorius to talk about Friday night, when he drove in a
career-high six runs with four hits, including a three-run home run, in the
Yankees' 15-4 victory.

It was the latest sign that Gregorius could be blossoming into the type of
shortstop that the Cincinnati Reds envisioned when they signed him as a
17-year-old, or that the Arizona Diamondbacks did when they gave up pitcher
Trevor Bauer in a three-way deal to land him.

Simmons remembered seeing Gregorius when they were working out last December,
the day after the Yankees landed him in a three-way trade with Detroit and
Arizona. ''Everybody was all over him,'' Simmons said.

The scrutiny would not stop, of course, when he arrived in spring training as
the shortstop who was replacing Derek Jeter. Gregorius made a base-running
blunder on opening day, hovered around .200 for the first two months and looked
uncertain in the field.

''Anybody that would have been in his shoes, that would have had to replace
Derek Jeter, would have had a rough start,'' Simmons said. ''All eyes are on
you, and you're trying to impress, so you're going to press a little bit.''

Simmons called Gregorius at one point to chat.

It was an easy conversation. Each player says the other has changed little since
the days when they alternated pitching and playing shortstop. (Gregorius played
second base when neither was pitching.) They were both passionate about other
sports in high school -- basketball for Gregorius and soccer for Simmons. They
are also both bowlegged, Simmons pointed out.

Simmons, who weighed 140 pounds when he finished high school and said he could
barely hit the ball out of the infield at the time, did not draw any interest
from scouts until he moved to the United States and attended junior college.

His ascent since then has been rapid.

''Everything he does now, he did when he was young,'' Gregorius said of Simmons.
''Since we were 6 years old, all the guys always said if you hit a ground ball
to short, it's an automatic out. Right now, guys are saying the same thing. He
hasn't changed.''

That was the message Simmons delivered to Gregorius.

Don't do too much. Play your game. Everything will get better.

It may not have been much different from what his teammates and coaches were
telling Gregorius. But there was some comfort in hearing it from someone who
knew him so well -- all the way back to that green long-sleeved shirt.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/shortstops-andrelton-simmons-a
nd-didi-gregorious-share-journey-small-island-to-big-leagues.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrelton Simmons, above, and Didi Gregorius, right, played
baseball together as children. Below right, a newspaper clipping listed the top
hitters in their league in 1998, when they were 8. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD
KIRKLAND/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ANN HEISENFELT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); YOUTH SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (64%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (89%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (89%); NETHERLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Surviving the Nazis

BYLINE: By PETER FRITZSCHE.

Peter Fritzsche, a professor of history and Germanic languages at the University
of Illinois, is the author of ''Life and Death in the Third Reich.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; THE SHORTLIST; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1085 words


AVENUE OF SPIESA True Story of Terror, Espionage, and One American Family's
Heroic Resistance in Nazi-Occupied FranceBy Alex Kershaw286 pp. Crown, $28.

''Avenue of Spies'' refers to the elegant Avenue Foch, which extends from the
Arc de Triomphe to the Bois de Boulogne. After the Germans entered Paris in June
1940, the Gestapo requisitioned real estate on the street to establish a Jewish
Affairs Office, a torture center and an office for counterintelligence
operations. At the corner of Avenue Foch and Rue de Traktir, Sumner Jackson, a
native of Maine and the chief surgeon of the American Hospital in Paris,
maintained his residence on what quickly became known as ''Avenue ­Boche,'' a
place to skirt.

Kershaw details the growing involvement of Jackson and his Swiss-born wife,
Toquette, in resistance activities in the shadow of Nazi surveillance. The
contrast is often cartoonish: the heroic, humane Americans in the midst of ''so
many psychopaths and sadists.'' But once the Jacksons, and their son, Phillip,
are arrested and deported to Germany just before the liberation of Paris, Nazi
''black bastards'' become fully recognizable by their brutality. The most
improbable circumstances enabled 58-year-old Toquette to survive, one of 17 out
of 550 in her group to do so. Phillip, forced on a death trip, also survived
long odds. Sumner did not.

Kershaw's melodramatic rendering of the coincidence of Americans and Nazis
sharing the same Paris street gains poignancy when he recounts the sheer
coincidence of survival up until the moment the war ended.

A BRIEF STOP ON THE ROAD FROM AUSCHWITZBy Goran RosenbergTranslated by Sarah
Death331 pp. Other Press, $24.95.

In this deeply considered and luminous account of the ''road from Auschwitz,''
Rosenberg first considers the road to Auschwitz. He eloquently recognizes the
Lodz ghetto as ''a doomed world, a world of gradual degradation and destruction,
a world of ever more unrealistic hopes, kept alive by increasingly implausible
euphemisms, but it's a world that still has a past and a future.'' Auschwitz was
the end of ghetto worlds, but as the German war effort faltered in autumn 1944,
''a rapidly growing and increasingly incomprehensible archipelago of slave
camps'' to supply German industry opened up roads from Auschwitz. Rosenberg
writes that ''every road from Ausch­witz is an individual miracle unto itself.''

Rosenberg's father, David, survived along twists and turns, making it to Sweden,
but not the transition from surviving to living, something rendered unbearable
by the prosperous postwar world that appeared ''increasingly disinclined to be
shaken to its very foundations.'' David could not possess ''the Place'' in which
he came to live, or complete ''the Project'': a house, a job, a family, which
had become postwar norms. A survivor, he was stranded. As someone who was
supposed to be killed but wasn't, he employed a vocabulary of experience that
contributed only to ''the confusion of languages''; Swedes, and Germans for that
matter, refused to translate or accept it.

The son's tender attempt to recreate his father's collapsed world produces a
disquieting understanding of the kinds of new places that were created on top of
the old places that were destroyed.

THE COST OF COURAGEBy Charles Kaiser278 pp. Other Press, $26.95.

After Germany's blitzkrieg victory, France's Third Republic folded its hand
quickly. The National Assembly voted itself out of existence. No prominent
leaders joined Charles de Gaulle in London. Yet historical work undertaken since
the 1970s to force attention on the collaborationism in occupied France cannot
ignore the record of resistance. The refusal to accept the fall of France as the
final word impelled many young people to oppose the Germans. They acted to feel
that they were ''making a difference.''

In this perceptive, but disjointed account, Kaiser commends the resisters, whose
acts of sabotage matched the ''incredible bravery'' of Allied soldiers. Yet
these heroes failed repeatedly. Resistance groups were easily infiltrated and
betrayed, and the Germans shipped thousands of political prisoners to Auschwitz
and Buchenwald. Kaiser can tell the story of André Boulloche and his family
because Boulloche was one of the few who survived his transport, although
indiscriminate German violence swept up his parents and brother, none of whom
returned home. The war was never ''romantic at all,'' a sister later explained.

The ''cost of courage'' was Boulloche's feelings of guilt for endangering his
family and his shame for remaining alive. After the war, he fell silent, just as
his father had after World War I. A private sense of loss counterbalanced the
collective myths of history. Still, Boulloche's lifelong affirmation of the
''necessity to engage,'' to protect the weak and vulnerable, reanimates those
myths.

MOTHERLAND

Growing Up With the Holocaust By Rita Goldberg340 pp. New Press, $27.95.

Goldberg's book is populated by exiles and refugees whose ''feet don't quite
touch the ground.'' At the heart of this engrossing memoir is her mother, Hilde
Jacobsthal, whose life was shaped by ''volcanic pressures of war and
emigration.'' Hilde returned to her apartment in Amsterdam one morning in July
1943 to find that the Gestapo had, after eight tries, snatched her German-born
Jewish parents, who subsequently perished in Ausch­witz.

Hilde went underground, moved to Belgium along paths blazed by the resistance to
bring downed Allied pilots to safety. Passed along as both a Roman Catholic and
a member of the Dutch Reformed Church, and from house to mansion, Hilde was
finally liberated by the Americans. Because she had medical training, she
volunteered for work in Bergen-Belsen, where she arrived at the end of April
1945. There she found out that her best friend, Margot, along with Margot's
''annoying kid sister,'' Anne Frank, had perished a few weeks earlier. Hilde ran
a day care center; worked with displaced persons; fell in love and married Max
Goldberg, a Swiss doctor; and moved to Basel, where the couple were recruited at
the end of 1947 as medical aides for the embattled state of Israel.

The extraordinary tale is heroic. It strikes the reader as thoroughly romantic,
even cinematic. But in ''perpetual crisis,'' Hilde built walls that made her
unreachable. Her daughter Rita speaks for her mother as well as for herself:
''We feel the shadow of violent death always on us. We were born in its chill.''
Even so, hineni -- ''here I am.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/surviving-the-nazis.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN GAL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ARRESTS (73%);
PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); DEPORTATION (52%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Europe to Bolster Railway Security After Thwarted Train Attack

BYLINE: By AURELIEN BREEDEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 550 words


PARIS -- European countries have agreed to increase security checks in railway
stations and on trains, and are calling for improved cooperation among
intelligence services, France's interior minister said Saturday after an
emergency meeting of European officials in Paris.

The meeting was called after a group of passengers that included two off-duty
American servicemen helped thwart a gunman on a high-speed train that was
carrying 554 people from Amsterdam to Paris on Aug. 21.

The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, reading from a joint statement after
the meeting, said the countries had agreed to increase the number of ID and
baggage checks in stations and on trains ''when it is necessary,'' and to use
mixed-nationality police patrols on international lines more often.

Mr. Cazeneuve also said the countries would consider ways to ensure that
international tickets bear passenger names, and to allow railway police officers
to use ''relevant databases'' when necessary.

''Our goal is that different actors at the European level take concrete and
ambitious safety and security measures,'' Mr. Cazeneuve said. He emphasized that
the measures should guarantee an ''efficient transborder transportation
system.''

Officials around Europe are confronted with the difficult task of securing an
international rail network of 100,000 trains used by 40 million passengers
daily, without hampering its speed and efficiency at shuttling goods and people
alike.

Metal detectors and baggage scans are used only on certain international lines,
like the Eurostar that links Paris to London, and officials worry that extending
such comprehensive checks to other lines could clog traffic.

Officials from Belgium, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, Spain and Switzerland attended the meeting in Paris, as did top
European Union transportation, interior and antiterrorism officials.

Mr. Cazeneuve said that European intelligence services needed to cooperate more
closely, calling for ''coordinated and simultaneous operations'' on targeted
trips and encouraging European police forces to share information on suspects in
a common database used by European countries in the 26-nation Schengen Area,
which allows free movement across borders.

Ayoub El Khazzani, the 25-year old Moroccan suspect in the foiled shooting this
month, had been flagged by French and Spanish intelligence services but was
nonetheless able to travel extensively around Europe.

Shortly before the attack, he bought a first-class ticket in Brussels with cash
and no ID before boarding the train with several firearms and ammunition. He was
charged with attempted murder in connection with a terrorist act, and the French
authorities have opened a formal investigation.

Mr. Cazeneuve also urged the European Commission to look into a ''targeted
modification'' of Schengen Area border rules to enable permanent controls
''where and only where it is necessary.'' Worries about increased security
threats and migration flows have put pressure on the open-border system.

France's transportation minister, Alain Vidalies, said after the meeting that
France would begin random baggage checks in the coming weeks and increase the
number of armed patrols on high-speed trains, according to Agence France-Presse.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/europe/europe-to-bolster-railway-securit
y-after-thwarted-train-attack.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRAVELER
SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); METAL DETECTORS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); TRAINS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%);
TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%);
TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); FIREARMS (65%); TERRORISM (60%);
MURDER (50%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (96%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM
(79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (97%); NETHERLANDS (93%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPEAN
UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%);
LUXEMBOURG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rethinking Work

BYLINE: By BARRY SCHWARTZ.

A professor of psychology at Swarthmore College and the author of the
forthcoming book ''Why We Work.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1874 words


HOW satisfied are we with our jobs?

Gallup regularly polls workers around the world to find out. Its survey last
year found that almost 90 percent of workers were either ''not engaged'' with or
''actively disengaged'' from their jobs. Think about that: Nine out of 10
workers spend half their waking lives doing things they don't really want to do
in places they don't particularly want to be.

Why? One possibility is that it's just human nature to dislike work. This was
the view of Adam Smith, the father of industrial capitalism, who felt that
people were naturally lazy and would work only for pay. ''It is the interest of
every man,'' he wrote in 1776 in ''The Wealth of Nations,'' ''to live as much at
his ease as he can.''

This idea has been enormously influential. About a century later, it helped
shape the scientific management movement, which created systems of manufacture
that minimized the need for skill and close attention -- things that lazy,
pay-driven workers could not be expected to have.

Today, in factories, offices and other workplaces, the details may be different
but the overall situation is the same: Work is structured on the assumption that
we do it only because we have to. The call center employee is monitored to
ensure that he ends each call quickly. The office worker's keystrokes are
overseen to guarantee productivity.

I think that this cynical and pessimistic approach to work is entirely backward.
It is making us dissatisfied with our jobs -- and it is also making us worse at
them. For our sakes, and for the sakes of those who employ us, things need to
change.

To start with, I don't think most people recognize themselves in Adam Smith's
description of wage-driven idlers. Of course, we care about our wages, and we
wouldn't work without them. But we care about more than money. We want work that
is challenging and engaging, that enables us to exercise some discretion and
control over what we do, and that provides us opportunities to learn and grow.
We want to work with colleagues we respect and with supervisors who respect us.
Most of all, we want work that is meaningful -- that makes a difference to other
people and thus ennobles us in at least some small way.

We want these things so much that we may even be willing to take home a thinner
pay envelope to get them. Lawyers leave white-shoe firms to work with the
underclass and underserved. Doctors abandon cushy practices to work in clinics
that serve poorer areas. Wall Street analysts move to Washington to work as
economic advisers in government.

You might object that those are examples of professionals -- people who have the
financial security to care about more than just their paychecks and the
privilege of working in fields in which it is possible to find meaning and
personal satisfaction. What about the janitor? The phone solicitor? The
hairdresser? The fast-food worker?

I submit that they, too, are looking for something more than wages. About 15
years ago, the Yale organizational behavior professor Amy Wrzesniewski and
colleagues studied custodians in a major academic hospital. Though the
custodians' official job duties never even mentioned other human beings, many of
them viewed their work as including doing whatever they could to comfort
patients and their families and to assist the professional staff members with
patient care. They would joke with patients, calm them down so that nurses could
insert IVs, even dance for them. They would help family members of patients find
their way around the hospital.

The custodians received no financial compensation for this ''extra'' work. But
this aspect of the job, they said, was what got them out of bed every morning.
''I enjoy entertaining the patients,'' said one. ''That's what I enjoy the
most.''

Similarly, a few years ago the Wharton management professor Adam Grant studied a
group of college students who worked as phone solicitors, calling alumni to ask
for contributions to their university. As an experiment, Professor Grant
arranged for a recent graduate who had attended the university on a scholarship
funded by such solicitation efforts to meet the students. The graduate gave a
short talk about how the scholarship had affected his life and how grateful he
was for their solicitation efforts.

Professor Grant found that the money that the students raised increased 171
percent afterward. Again, there was no added compensation for the harder work --
just a deeper sense of purpose.

These are just two examples from a literature of cases demonstrating that when
given the chance to make their work meaningful and engaging, employees jump at
it, even if it means that they have to work harder. Such cases should serve to
remind us there is a human cost to routinizing and depersonalizing work. Too
often, instead of being able to take pride in what they do, and derive
satisfaction from doing it well, workers have little to show for their efforts
aside from their pay.

But perhaps there is an upside to monotonous, routinized work. Is it possible
that what we lose in work satisfaction, we gain in efficiency?

This, again, is what Adam Smith thought. In his famous example of the pin
factory, he extolled the virtues of the division of labor: ''One man draws out
the wire, another straights it, a third cuts it, a fourth points it, a fifth
grinds it at the top for receiving the head.'' Our work experience might be
poorer, but we -- or at least our bosses -- would be richer.

Yet more than 200 years later, there is still little evidence of this
satisfaction-efficiency trade-off. In fact, most evidence points in the opposite
direction. In his 1998 book, ''The Human Equation,'' which reviewed numerous
studies across dozens of different industries, the Stanford organizational
behavior professor Jeffrey Pfeffer found that workplaces that offered employees
work that was challenging, engaging and meaningful, and over which they had some
discretion, were more profitable than workplaces that treated employees as cogs
in a production machine.

For example, he cited a study of 136 companies across many different industries
that had initial public offerings in 1988. It found that companies that placed a
high value on human resources were almost 20 percent more likely to survive for
at least five years than those that did not. Similar differences in success were
found in studies that compared the management practices of steel mills. And a
study of United States apparel manufacturers found that sales growth was more
than 50 percent higher in companies with enlightened management practices than
in those that did things the old-fashioned way.

The findings were similar in studies of semiconductor manufacturing, oil
refining and various service industries. And comparable findings were documented
more recently by the Harvard Business School professor Michael Beer in his 2009
book ''High Commitment High Performance.''

You get the distinct impression that if you're trying to decide where to make an
investment, the best place to look is those annual lists of the 100 best places
to work. When employees have work that they want to do, they are happier. And
when they are happier, their work is better, as is the company's bottom line.

This is admittedly not news. But that only raises a deeper question: In the face
of longstanding evidence that routinization and an overemphasis on pay lead to
worse performance in the workplace, why have we continued to tolerate and even
embrace that approach to work?

The answer, I think, is that the ideas of Adam Smith have become a kind of
self-fulfilling prophecy: They gave rise to a world of work in which his gloomy
assumptions about human beings became true. When you take all opportunities for
meaning and engagement out of the work that people do, why would they work,
except for the wage? What Smith and his descendants failed to realize is that
rather than exploiting a fact about human nature, they were creating a fact
about human nature.

The transformation I have in mind goes something like this: You enter an
occupation with a variety of aspirations aside from receiving your pay. But then
you discover that your work is structured so that most of those aspirations will
be unmet. Maybe you're a call center employee who wants to help customers solve
their problems -- but you find out that all that matters is how quickly you
terminate each call. Or you're a teacher who wants to educate kids -- but you
discover that only their test scores matter. Or you're a corporate lawyer who
wants to serve his client with care and professionalism -- but you learn that
racking up billable hours is all that really counts.

Pretty soon, you lose your lofty aspirations. And over time, later generations
don't even develop the lofty aspirations in the first place. Compensation
becomes the measure of all that is possible from work. When employees negotiate,
they negotiate for improved compensation, since nothing else is on the table.
And when this goes on long enough, we become just the kind of creatures that
Adam Smith thought we always were. (Even Smith, in one passage, seemed to
acknowledge this possibility, noting that mindless, routinized work typically
made people ''stupid and ignorant.'')

The truth is that we are not money-driven by nature. Studies show that people
are less likely to help load a couch into a van when you offer a small payment
than when you don't, because the offer of pay makes their task a commercial
transaction rather than a favor to another human being. And people are less
likely to agree to have a nuclear waste site in their community when you offer
to pay them, because the offer of compensation undermines their sense of civic
duty.

If people were always paid to load couches into vans, the notion of a favor
would soon vanish. Money does not tap into the essence of human motivation so
much as transform it. When money is made the measure of all things, it becomes
the measure of all things.

To be sure, people should be adequately compensated for their work. Recent
efforts across the country to achieve a significant increase in the minimum wage
represent real social progress. But in securing such victories for working
people, we should not lose sight of the aspiration to make work the kind of
activity people embrace, rather than the kind of activity they shun.

How can we do this? By giving employees more of a say in how they do their jobs.
By making sure we offer them opportunities to learn and grow. And by encouraging
them to suggest improvements to the work process and listening to what they say.

But most important, we need to emphasize the ways in which an employee's work
makes other people's lives at least a little bit better (and, of course, to make
sure that it actually does make people's lives a little bit better). The phone
solicitor is enabling a deserving student to go to a great school. The hospital
janitor is easing the pain and suffering of patients and their families. The
fast-food worker is lifting some of the burden from a harried parent.

Work that is adequately compensated is an important social good. But so is work
that is worth doing. Half of our waking lives is a terrible thing to waste.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/rethinking-work.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY DAVID JIEN) (SR1
 SR4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); MANUFACTURING
FACILITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CALL CENTERS (64%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE
SERVICE (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nancy Salz, Richard Mickey

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 113 words


Nancy Laura Salz and Richard Kendrick Mickey are to be married Sunday at the
couple's home in Stockbridge, Mass. Rabbi Dennis Ross is to officiate.

The bride, 75, who is keeping her name, owns an advertising and
marketing-communications consulting firm bearing her name in New York. She is
also a musical theater critic for the website New York Arts. She graduated from
Vassar and is the daughter of Elisabeth B. Salz and Jacque A. Salz, who lived in
Palm Beach, Fla.

The groom, 71, is a cellist with the Springfield Symphony Orchestra and the
Berkshire Symphony, both in Massachusetts. He is the son of Ruth Fried Mickey
and the stepson of Jules N. Roth, who lived in Los Angeles.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/nancy-salz-richard-mickey.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (87%); MUSIC
INDUSTRY (87%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (85%); MUSIC (84%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (84%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (84%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); MUSICAL THEATER (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%);
FLORIDA, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Food for Thought, Then Brunch

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND.

#SundayRoutine readers can follow Heather McGhee on Twitter on Sunday @hmcghee.

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUNDAY ROUTINE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 703 words


Heather McGhee, the president of the left-leaning research and advocacy group
Demos, often begins her Sundays by giving her mother something to talk about.
''She's the person who has a lot of opinions about my appearance,'' said Ms.
McGhee, 35, a frequent guest on morning talk shows and on MSNBC. Besides doing
on-camera stints, she likes a day without meetings, conferences or fund-raising
talks, instead pursuing culture with friends. She lives in Greenwich Village
with two cats.

TWO ROUNDTABLES AND A MICROPHONE My Sundays are often a little bit of, at its
best, an early Sunday brunch with big ideas and politics and banter around a
table that's being filmed, followed by a real Sunday brunch with more of the
real New York. If I'm doing a show, the car will pick me up around 7 a.m., so
I'll be in the makeup chair furiously updating my news feed.

MAGIC CAR RIDE The best part about it is that then you have a car to take you
anywhere in the city. So usually I'll go straight from 30 Rock to brunch,
usually in Brooklyn.

CHICKEN AND WAFFLES My favorite brunch place is actually owned by my cousin.
It's a place in Clinton Hill called the General Greene. It's great haute
Southern cuisine, farm to table. I didn't grow up in the South, but eating
chicken and waffles with family and friends is as close as I can get.

CALL OF DUTY I do like to carve out an hour to get some work done in a beautiful
place. Either Washington Square Park, or the seats outside at the Stumptown cafe
on Eighth Street and Macdougal. Or if I'm in Brooklyn, I love to go to Fort
Greene Park. Sometimes I go to the West Side Highway and watch the joggers go
by.

BRIDGING THOUGHTS My favorite thing about Sunday is that it's a bridge day,
where I'm still letting my hair down, but I may experience some interaction or
insight about people that I'm still thinking about on a Monday. That's the ideal
Sunday for me: to be very present and having a great time, and at the same time
be reminded of why I do my work.

SOMETHING ARTSY I was a theater nerd growing up. It's pretty much a requirement
for me that every weekend I see some sort of art. My partner and I will usually
try to go to a museum or a gallery. Or the Afropunk Festival, which when I
discovered it in Brooklyn I thought I'd died and gone to heaven.

STORYTELLING I was an American studies major in college, which is the study of
why a culture is telling itself a certain story at a certain time. So even
though I work in politics, storytelling is a crucial way for me to understand
what's going on in our current political moment. For example, this is an
incredible moment of consciousness-raising among black people, so how are the
singers or the rappers and the visual artists interpreting this moment of social
change? I can't glean insights from reading a newspaper about the unrest in St.
Louis that I can glean from hearing someone interpret what it's like to be black
at this moment through song or through art.

UNPACK, PACK Sunday is usually my night for packing. Or unpacking. I am not the
type of person who unpacks upon returning, so sometimes I have to unpack from
the last trip in order to pack for the next trip. I feel like I've gotten
packing down, and then everything falls apart with the shoes. I have to bring
sneakers and I have to bring pumps and I have to bring sandals, and I suddenly
have a very heavy suitcase.

GRAZE OR JUICE Sundays I'm not a huge dinner person. I like to have a big
breakfast and then taper off through the day. So I may grab something on the run
or order in. My partner would love to make a massive meal at 10 every night. But
I might skip dinner altogether, or just grab a juice from the Liquiteria on the
corner.

ZOMBIES BEFORE MEDITATION Entertainment is obsessed nowadays with apocalypse and
disaster. I find it quite entertaining like everybody else, but I don't think I
could do the work I do if I were imagining that the world is going to end in
disaster anyway. So I'll often watch something like ''The Walking Dead'' or
''Luther,'' something that's pretty dark, but then I try to meditate before I go
to bed and think about some things that I actually want for the world. I try to
reset my mind before I go to sleep.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/how-heather-mcghee-president-of-demos
-an-advocacy-group-spends-her-sundays.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMON HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%);
CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); CATS (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Johan Renvall, 55, Dancer of Astonishing Range

BYLINE: By ANNA KISSELGOFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 477 words


Johan Renvall, a principal dancer at American Ballet Theater whose range there
from 1978 to 1996 could stun audiences with spectacular classical technique and
-- in dramatic ballets -- powerful intensity, died on Monday in the Riverdale
section of the Bronx. He was 55 and lived in Manhattan.

The cause was liver failure, said his partner, Tom Frueh.

Mr. Renvall left a lasting imprint at Ballet Theater as the original Bronze Idol
in Natalia Makarova's 1980 version of ''La Bayadère.'' As a temple statue come
to life and near-naked in gold body paint, he erupted into sensational airborne
bravura with perfect form.

Yet as critics across the country noted, Mr. Renvall's gifts went far beyond
pyrotechnics. Antony Tudor, Ballet Theater's master of psychological ballet,
cast him in his dance-dramas, in which he portrayed a murderer in ''Undertow,''
a youth in search of Zenlike enlightenment in ''Shadowplay,'' a young lover in
''Dim Lustre'' and, in a memorably deep performance, a grieving mourner in
''Dark Elegies.'' As always, this depth came from the projection of his
movement, not through conventional acting.

When he appeared in leading roles in 19th-century classics like ''La Sylphide''
and ''Coppélia,'' he was praised for the warmth of his characterization as well
as for his virtuosity.

Johan Renvall was born on Sept. 22, 1959, in Stockholm, where he first became a
figure skater, winning medals in the Swedish and Nordic championships. A coach
suggested he study ballet, and he entered the school of the Royal Swedish
Ballet, joining the company in 1977.

He also studied privately with the Russian teacher Alexander Minz, who advised
him to audition in New York for Ballet Theater, which he joined right after
winning the silver medal at the prestigious Varna International Ballet
Competition in Bulgaria in 1978. Ballet Theater made him a soloist in 1980 and a
principal in 1987.

As a male ballet partner, he was on the short side (he said he was 5-foot-7) and
felt his height was one reason he was not used often in leading roles in
19th-century classics.

Contemporary choreographers, however, cast him in their premieres for Ballet
Theater, and they included Twyla Tharp, Lar Lubovitch and Agnes de Mille. In
20th-century classics, he excelled as a baby-faced outlaw in Eugene Loring's
''Billy the Kid'' and showed an impressive elegance in Frederick Ashton's ''Les
Rendezvous.'' By contrast, he was all high-octane athleticism in Glen Tetley's
''Rite of Spring.''

Mr. Renvall also appeared as a guest with the Royal Swedish Ballet, where he
danced Albrecht in ''Giselle.''

In 1984, he began choreographing for other companies, including the New Jersey
Ballet and his own touring group, Johan Renvall and the Stars of American
Ballet.

In addition to Mr. Frueh, he is survived by his mother, Helena Heltichius, and a
brother, Oskar.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/dance/johan-renvall-american-ballet-theat
er-principal-dies-at-55.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Johan Renvall in 1982. He danced for American Ballet Theater
from 1978 to 1996, becoming a principal in 1987. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK
MITCHELL/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BALLET (92%); DANCERS (91%); DANCE (91%);
DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%);
COMPETITIVE DANCING & DANCESPORT (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); WINTER SPORTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (93%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (54%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (54%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

(Really) Early Works

BYLINE: By KAT HERRIMAN and GAY GASSMANN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 92 words


Memorialized on refrigerators, enshrined in albums and entombed in attics,
childhood art offers a small window into our former selves. In a new series of
interactive quizzes for T, artists pair a piece of their past with the present.
A current work by David Salle, ''This is the Fun,'' is above; can you tell which
of the three works to the right he created as a teenager? Visit tmagazine.com to
match five more artists -- Deborah Kass, Dustin Yellin, Ugo Rondinone, Nir Hod
and Johan Creten -- with their earliest pieces.

KAT HERRIMAN AND GAY GASSMANN



URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SALLE, LICENSED BY VAGA, VIA SKARSTEDT, NEW
YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Triple Crown Colt Is Calm Before the Saratoga Storm

BYLINE: By MELISSA HOPPERT

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 707 words


SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y. --  It was 3 p.m. Friday and the Triple Crown winner
American Pharoah was taking a stroll near Barn 25, where he was stabled ahead of
Saturday's Travers Stakes at Saratoga Race Course. He stopped to pose for
members of the news media and his adoring fans at each end of the wooden green
barn, where security barricades had been set up since his arrival Wednesday.

''Look at him; oh, my God, he's so beautiful,'' a woman who drove a Brook Ledge
horse van said to her friend.

This was American Pharoah's second and much quieter star turn of the day. An
estimated crowd of 15,000 had shown up to watch him gallop past the historic
racetrack's grandstand.

''There were so many people here; it was so cool,'' said Larry Collmus, the New
York Racing Association race caller. ''I've never seen anything like it.''

Although the scene playing out under the tall trees that blanket the backside
was the picture of calm, American Pharoah's presence here was not exactly a
stress-free decision. There may been some second-guessing in his camp after he
finished second to Keen Ice, a 12-to-1 shot who finished second behind American
Pharoah in the Haskell Invitational on Aug. 2 and third in the Belmont Stakes on
June 6.

While American Pharoah's victory in the Haskell helped his trainer, Bob Baffert,
push his record number of victories in that race to eight, Baffert is only one
for six in the Travers, winning with Point Given in 2001.

Baffert has said he owed it to American Pharoah not to get him beaten. Yet the
lure of the Midsummer Derby, as the Travers is known, proved irresistible,
especially for the horse's owner, Ahmed Zayat, who said he did not want to pass
up a chance to run in Saratoga's signature race.

The one who seemed to be feeling the least pressure this week was American
Pharoah. ''He is so easy to manage,'' Baffert's assistant, Jimmy Barnes, said
Friday. ''We never really have a day where we have to adjust anything, because
he's at the same level every day.''

Fans here lined the streets to watch American Pharoah's van arrive and camped
out overnight to secure the perfect spot to watch him race. Even the connections
of his competitors were smitten. John Shirreffs, who saddled the seventh-place
finisher Smart Transition, trained Zenyatta and can relate to the attention
Baffert is receiving and the pressure that a champion horse brings. Shirreffs
attended the morning workouts Friday to see his horse train, but also to get a
good look at American Pharoah.

''It was great to see all of the fans turn out; it's been so exciting,'' he
said.

The goal has been to get American Pharoah to the Breeders' Cup Classic at the
end of October, when he could face Beholder, the mare who won the Pacific
Classic on Aug. 22 by eight and a quarter lengths. But after the race, a visibly
shaken Zayat said he was seriously considering retiring his champion colt,
although he said he would consult Baffert and his family before he made a final
decision.

''If the horse just showed me he's not the Pharoah I know, then I have no
problem retiring him,'' Zayat said, adding that he had no regrets. ''Right now,
I'm disappointed; I'm heartbroken.''

Baffert said the loss was ''hard to digest.'' He added, ''I feel bad for the
horse getting beat like that.''

Before he began his news conference, Keen Ice's owner, Jerry Crawford of Donegal
Racing, gave credit to American Pharoah's owner. ''A heartfelt thanks to Team
Zayat for bringing American Pharoah here and making the race what it was
today,'' he said to a mostly empty tent, the news media having followed Team
Pharoah out the door.

Whether or not the Triple Crown winner races in the Classic, the Pharoah Tour,
as Baffert likes to call it, has always had an expiration date.

''We're all just enjoying him while we can,'' Baffert said.

Plenty of tears were shed by American Pharoah's connections and his fans
Saturday, and Barnes said there would certainly be a lot more when the champion
colt headed to the breeding shed.

''We're going to miss all this, and we'll miss him; he's just such a joy to be
around,'' he said. ''His stall is the first stop I make when I get to barn at
4:15 in the morning and the last stop I make on the way out.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/american-pharoah-is-calm-amid-the-sarat
oga-storm.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Spectators waited to see American Pharoah in the paddock
Saturday before the Travers Stakes, which was won by Keen Ice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
WILL WALDRON/ALBANY TIMES UNION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES &
VENUES (73%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (56%)

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (59%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 34 words


''The fault is not with those who cultivate the opium. It's with the idiots who
consume it.''

JOSÉ LUIS GARCÍA, a farmer in Mexico who leases his land for opium cultivation,
on addiction in the United States.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day-for-sunday-au
gust-30-2015.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPIUM (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Damian Marley on How Music Breaks Language Barriers.

BYLINE: By KENAN CHRISTIANSEN

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Q&A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words


As a celebrated musician and bearer of the most recognizable name in reggae,
Damian Marley is often on tour.

''Jamaica is still home in terms of my heart, though,'' said Mr. Marley, 37, who
is to perform on the Welcome to Jamrock Reggae Cruise in November. ''I was born
and raised in Kingston, where my mom still lives, and even though I also live in
Miami, when I talk about home, I'm always talking about Jamaica.''

Below are excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Marley, a son of Bob Marley,
about traveling abroad and coming home.

Q. When you return to Kingston, how do you get that sense of being back?

A. I often go to the Bob Marley Museum. It's like a home base. But other than
that it's the people and the culture. I love going to Hellshire Beach. They
serve fried fish and what we call festival, which is like cornmeal mixed with
flour. They make it into a fried cake that is unique to Jamaica. Every weekend
as kids we used to go to the beach to swim and afterward get fried fish and
festival and bammy [a traditional flatbread made with cassava].

Your father said he was first exposed to music in Kingston. What types of music
were you exposed to there?

I grew up listening to a lot of dance hall music. In those years, it was people
like Shabba Ranks and Ninjaman and Peter Metro. Kingston is still very much the
hub for music. It's the capital and most of the runnings and happenings in the
country in terms of TV promotion happen there.

In 2005 your album ''Welcome to Jamrock'' contrasted Jamaica's image as a sandy
paradise for tourists with the struggles faced by citizens who were living amid
poverty and violence in its slums. Has the last decade brought any positive
changes?

With the Internet becoming so popular, there are more opportunities for people
to be exposed to and reach out to the world. When it comes down to government
programs that help build a critical foundation for young people, I don't think
there has been that much change. However, there is probably more awareness and
more conversations about the need for change.

You once said you were lucky to be on the frontier of the resurrection of roots
music. Where is the audience for reggae today?

I think for a long time Jamaica wasn't producing much roots music, but over the
past three or four years it's becoming very popular again, not only here but
also in places like India and Europe. I just came back from a tour in South
America and we got a great reception in Colombia. The world over embraces it and
they know Bob Marley. You could always sing ''One Love'' to people in places
like China and they'll enjoy that.

Which countries inspire you the most?

Every place has something special about it. I had a good time in California when
I went to the redwood forest, where they have trees that cars can drive through
and these great rock formations that remind you of the life span of that place,
versus the lifetime of a human being. Redwoods have been around longer than any
person walking the Earth, so in that way it was very humbling and shows you the
awesomeness of nature.

It's also very interesting when you go to a place where English is not their
primary language and you see how they respond to the music. Where you have a
conversation with people who can't respond in English and yet they're able to
sing the songs back to you. When people are breaking language barriers to come
see you, that means a lot.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/jamaica-damian-marley.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Damian Marley, a reggae artist, in 2013. ''When I talk about
home,'' he said, ''I'm always talking about Jamaica.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILBERT
BELLAMY/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%);
FESTIVALS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); BEACHES (73%);
INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS
(62%); SLUM DWELLINGS (62%)

CITY: KINGSTON, JAMAICA (93%)

COUNTRY: JAMAICA (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); INDIA (72%); SOUTH AMERICA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lauren Pueschel, James Allen Jr.

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 164 words


Dr. Lauren Camille Pueschel and James Kevin Allen Jr. were married Saturday at
the Brewster Inn in Cazenovia, N.Y. Joseph Greenman, a village justice of
Manlius, N.Y., officiated.

Dr. Pueschel, 30, who is keeping her name, is a third-year resident in emergency
medicine at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx. She graduated cum laude from
George Washington and has a medical degree from the New York Institute of
Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine in Old Westbury, N.Y. She is the
daughter of Judy L. Pueschel and Bruce E. Pueschel of Manalapan, N.J.

Mr. Allen, 30, is the vice president for communications and strategy at Mic, a
media company in Manhattan. In 2013, he was the director of communications for
Cory Booker, who was then the mayor of Newark and who is now a United States
senator. The groom graduated cum laude from the State University at Albany. He
is a son of Juanita A. Critz of Cazenovia, N.Y., and the late Mr. Allen Sr., and
the stepson of Matthew E. Critz.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/lauren-pueschel-james-allen-j
r.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); OSTEOPATHY
(71%)

PERSON: CORY BOOKER (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (54%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Oh No He Didn't

BYLINE: By KATHERINE A. POWERS.

Katherine A. Powers, who received the 2013 Nona Balakian Citation for Excellence
in Reviewing from the National Book Critics Circle, is the editor of ''Suitable
Accommodations. An Autobiographical Story of Family Life: The Letters of J.F.
Powers, 1942-1963.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 662 words


GIRL WAITS WITH GUNBy Amy Stewart 408 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $27.  Amy
Stewart's first novel, ''Girl Waits With Gun,'' follows her award-­winning
nonfiction -- ''The Drunken Botanist,'' itself a dram of good cheer after her
previous, excellently informative ­doses of bad news in the shape of rampant
earthworms (''The Earth Moved''), poisonous bouquets (''Flower Confidential''),
toxic vegetation (''Wicked Plants'') and lethal insects (''Wicked Bugs'').

Her partiality for villainy clearly persists, for her novel begins with an evil
deed, an actual one, perpetrated in the summer of 1914, in Paterson, N.J. Henry
Kaufman, the ne'er-do-well son of a wealthy silk-dyeing plant owner, smashed his
automobile into the horse-drawn buggy occupied by three sisters, Constance,
Norma and Fleurette Kopp. The buggy was shattered and the women were hurled to
the ground. Kaufman, accompanied by a carful of lowlifes, refused to take
responsibility. Constance demanded $50 recompense, whereupon Kaufman and his
coterie of goons set about a campaign of intimidation and extortion.

Stewart has spun a fine, historically astute novel out of all this, adding a
subplot and deepening the characters. She gives the narration to Constance, the
eldest sister, a tall, burly 35-year-old woman with a down-to-earth manner.
(''Mr. Hopper was breathing in that way that large men breathed, as if fueled by
a boiler room instead of a pair of lungs.'') She and her sisters have been
living on a farm outside Paterson for years, having retreated from Brooklyn with
their mother after an untoward, life-altering event, only gradually revealed.
Now dead, their mother, abandoned years ago by her drunken husband, distrusted
and feared everything outside their domestic fastness.

Norma, the second eldest, shares her mother's dim view of the world, raises
pigeons and reads half a dozen newspapers a day, chiefly, it seems, for lurid
stories of crime and disaster. She believes ''self-­propelled vehicles to be a
path to lawlessness and social chaos'' -- a view pretty much borne out by
events. The youngest Kopp, Fleurette, is a high-­spirited 16-year-old, an
accomplished needlewoman, would-be actress and spinner of tall tales. The
sisters' personalities flower under Stewart's pen, contributing happy notes of
comedy to a terrifying situation.

After Constance repeatedly presses Kaufman for the money to repair the buggy, he
and his gang send messages -- via bricks tossed through the farmhouse windows --
threatening to shoot the Kopps, burn them and abduct Fleurette and sell her into
''white slavery.'' Further destruction, harassment, even gun shots, follow,
topped off by an attempt to extort $1,000. Determined to see justice, Constance
finds an ally in the county sheriff, a decent man disgusted by the brutality
with which a silk workers' strike had been suppressed the year before. While
other police officers hang back, afraid of the ''silk men,'' he's all action,
supplying the Kopps with a couple of revolvers. Along the way, Constance finds
her calling as sleuth and champion of the weak, drawn to the plight of another
of Kaufman's victims, Lucy Blake. The woman, a silk worker, has had a child by
him, now missing, most likely abducted at the man's behest.

Stewart integrates the beliefs and conditions of a vanished way of life into the
story, enriching it without playing the intrusive docent. Transportation,
domestic arrangements, dress, food, the place of women and the lot of the worker
are neatly stitched in, as are the isolation of the country and the public glare
of the city, and, most entertainingly, sensational, inaccurate newspaper
accounts of events.

And then there is Constance: Sequestered for years in the country and cowed by
life, she develops believably into a woman who comes into herself, discovering
powers long smothered under shame and resignation. I, for one, would like to see
her return to wield them again in further installments.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/girl-waits-with-gun-by-amy-stewar
t.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HANNA BARCZYK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); NON FICTION
LITERATURE (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (77%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (77%); BOTANY (72%); EXTORTION (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%);
SLAVERY (69%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Flying's Golden Age, Image Mattered

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; AIRLINES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 205 words


There was a time not too long ago when airlines represented the pinnacle of
style and when flying over vast distances was still viewed as a small miracle.
That didn't last too long -- about three decades, from the end of World War II
to the mid-1970s. PanAm was the first to fly the Boeing 707, one of the earliest
and most successful jet-engine airplanes, kicking off the Jet Age, and the world
discovered the sleek beauty of the Concorde and the majesty of the Boeing 747.

Government regulation of prices and routes kept fares high, but it allowed
airlines to focus on quality and customer service, and on their image. To forge
their identities with potential passengers, carriers turned to graphic designers
and illustrators like Saul Bass and David Klein, artists like Alexander Calder
and fashion designers like Emilio Pucci.

The result was an extraordinary period of creativity through graphic design and
advertising that has been meticulously revived in ''Airline Visual Identity,
1945-1975'' (Callisto). The 430-page book, by Matthias C. Hühne, reveals the
optimism behind this golden age of flying by showcasing hundreds of airline
posters and ads from those days. Here is a selection from the nearly 400 images
it contains.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anonymous. Silkscreen, circa 1962.
Offset photolithograph, 1967.
Victor Sergueyevich Asseriants for Aeroflot. Offset photolithograph, 1964.
David Klein. Silkscreen, circa 1956.
Anonymous. Offset lithograph, circa 1969.
Raymond Savignac
art direction by Jean Carlu. Lithograph, 1956.
Ivan Chermayeff, Chermayeff & Geismar, Offset photolithograph,1972.
Anonymous. Offset photolithograph, 1971. References the cult movie ''Endless
Summer.''
 Anonymous. Offset photolithograph, 1969. ''The proud bird with the golden
tail.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); PRICES
(69%); FASHION DESIGN (68%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%);
NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411
AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

When Airlines Looked Cool and Showed It

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1322 words


In more ways than one, ''Airline Visual Identity, 1945-1975'' (Callisto
Publishing) is a hefty piece of work, landing at 430 pages, weighing 14 pounds
and selling for $400. But the true size of its ambition is how it reveals the
optimism of the Jet Age through nearly 400 posters and images from airlines like
Pan Am, TWA, and United, evoking a time now seen as the golden age of flying.

The author, Matthias C. Hühne, is also the owner of Callisto, which published
the book in April. He provides a meticulous overview of the vivid posters and
design elements of the leading airlines of these years. The most appealing
aspect of the book is how it recreates that sense of discovery and wonder when
flying was not yet a commodity -- or a hassle.

Mr. Hühne recently spoke on the phone from his office in Berlin about what these
posters tells us about the industry then, and now. Following are edited excerpts
from that conversation.

Q: How did the project come about?

A: About six or seven years ago, I came across an Air France poster from the
1950s in Paris. I had never seen this image before in graphic design
publications. I was just so surprised at how beautiful it looked as a full-sized
poster. My interest started to grow over time as I researched how these designs
were created and who was behind them.

The book looks at a very critical period, both for airlines and for the
advertising and design business, between 1945 and 1975. Why did you pick these
bookends?

I didn't want to include pre-World War II designs. If you look at them, they are
not quite as firm. Pan Am was a leader back then but they did not have that much
to tell as graphic design. That really began after World War II, when the
airlines had all these large aircraft on their hands that they didn't have
before. The business was suddenly bigger, and the distance they could cover was
bigger. This is when they started to pay a lot more attention to advertising,
and so on.

Why stop in 1975?

All the big steps in the industry's technological development were completed by
the mid-1970s, for instance in terms of size with the Boeing 747 and the
Concorde. We've had the Airbus A380 since then, of course, but even that was not
such a huge step forward in many ways.

Also, by the mid-1970s, the emphasis on advertising had moved away from graphic
design expressed in posters and elaborate print advertising over to color
television. This had really started before, in the 1960s, but the shift from
these beautiful posters was more marked by then. What you see after that was not
so innovative anymore.

And the experience as a passenger was already much more like the experience we
have today, and some would say it has gotten even worse since. But the reality
is that the large aircraft and the capacity they brought along, as well as the
industry's deregulation, changed the whole attitude toward advertising. Prior to
deregulation, it was still important to highlight the qualities of an airline,
because they could not compete over price. After deregulation, it became only
about price.

Many of these ads are iconic and whether we remember them or not, they've left
an imprint on our minds. For example, there's the TWA Fly New York poster from
1956 by David Klein that is now part of the permanent collection at the Museum
of Modern Art. But the creators of many other posters are lost.

There is a poster for Pan Am, for instance, that I like a lot. If you look
closely, the mole on the woman's face is the Pan Am globe and her eyes have the
British flag. It is obviously the work of a very talented designer but we will
never know who. That's fairly typical for commercial design. In some cases, the
companies didn't allow the designers to be named. But in some cases, too, the
designers themselves wished to remain anonymous. Some were well-known artists,
for example, who needed money and worked anonymously on commercial projects.
This wasn't art. It was commerce.

Also, corporate archives are often lost. The corporations don't like to admit
this but in very many cases, they simply discarded these old records. They
didn't think they needed them anymore. And they were probably not aware that
what they created would have some importance decades later.

You mentioned that airlines emphasized strong visual identities. That's changed
quite a bit. If you look around today, all airplane liveries look the same. That
definitely wasn't the case in the 1960s and 1970s.

Look at what Saul Bass, who was a very famous designer, created for United. The
tulip was pretty iconic and has now disappeared. In many ways the companies then
were quite attached to what they had. They knew they had something strong.

It's interesting, too, that what we see as iconic now wasn't always obvious. The
senior management at Pan Am was anything but fascinated by the new globe design
when they saw it for the first time. They liked their old look.

Pan Am has some of the strongest posters and advertising in the book. I wonder
whether these designs can tell us anything about what ultimately caused its
demise?

This is so interesting. The 1960s was really when Pan Am was at the peak of its
success, financially, and in terms of prestige, as a symbol -- a positive symbol
-- of the United States. They also had this graphic design style that was very
self-confident and humorous. And you can immediately see from these posters that
it's a successful company.

In the early 1970s, Pan Am hired one of the best graphic design firms in New
York City, Chermayeff & Geismar, to redesign their corporate identity. They came
up with a new name, beautiful design and a great campaign. But by then the whole
corporation was so insecure and all of a sudden they were making all those huge
losses. Some employees even ran full-page ads at the time begging the airline
regulators to allow Pan Am to fly domestically. I think that was their biggest
problem, and when they were allowed to do so, it was too late. It must have been
clear they were in an unsolvable situation, and I think you can see that.

I wonder if one reason these posters are so strong is because they were supposed
to hang on the walls of travel agents. When people walked in, they'd point at
them, and say, I want to go there.

They were really not art in their time; they were advertising. They were the
highest level of advertising in terms of the artistic content. But still, they
were nothing but advertising. And they would go anywhere customers would see
them. In airports, in ticket sale offices, in travel agencies. Air France had
these ticket agencies where the posters would be the focal point. And they would
frame them very beautifully.

It is so striking that so few of these posters show an actual plane or the
inside of the cabin. It's all about the destination or the voyage. That's so
different from today's airline ads that really put the emphasis on features like
seats or cabin interiors.

Today, they have to try to bring across what makes them different. But the
problem is that very few people would pay an extra $100 for a ticket between New
York and Paris just to have a slightly bigger TV screen. That's the problem the
airlines have. They still have to invest in the best seats and products because
that's what the competition wants, but when it comes to ads, the emphasis has
changed. They have to invest in their websites for instance, to make sure people
find them.

So that's probably why graphic design has diminished. There is also another
aspect to this. Perhaps the industry itself is not as prestigious as it used to
be. I hate to say that. It's not what it used to be in the 1960s when every
designer who wanted to be someone wanted to work for the airline industry. Today
those talents are working for Apple or in the tech industry. That could be
another reason. For airlines now, it's all about the price. It's not as
important to be well recognized.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/american-airlines-posters.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); WRITERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING
(77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%);
NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411
AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%);
NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR
TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Discomfort Zone of Terse Insights

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; POP; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 147 words


A clear voice and an unsparing eye define the songs of Amy Bezunartea, who is
playing Rockwood Music Hall in advance of the Sept. 25 release of her calmly
implacable second album, ''New Villain'' (Kiam). She keeps the music slow and
sparse, sometimes just a lone guitar or piano note, deliberately exposing the
way her terse lyrics and finely chiseled melodies carry uncomfortable insights
about herself and others.

''I have nothing to protect/I have nothing to perfect,'' she vows in ''Wild
Thing.'' And in a whispery but frank waltz called ''Oh the Things a Girl Must
Do,'' she reflects, ''The worst part of it is that I am good, I'm actually
good/I'm so much more than this.'' She sings about confidence and fear, loyalty
and separation, need and renunciation. And one thing she never bothers with is
self-pity.

(7 p.m. Tuesday, opening for David Clement; rockwoodmusichall.com.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/music/amy-bezunarteas-new-villain-taps-a-
discomfort-zone-of-terse-insights.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amy Bezunartea's second album, ''New Villain,'' is out Sept. 25.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER O'CONNOR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Any Plans for New Year's Eve? The College Football Playoff Has Some

BYLINE: By MARC TRACY

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 957 words


Forget about the big ball in Times Square. Select a Champagne that pairs well
with Buffalo wings. Make sure your New Year's Eve date likes college football as
much as you do.

That is the message the sport's powers that be would like to get across by Dec.
31, when the two semifinal games of the College Football Playoff are scheduled
to kick off in the afternoon and the evening. If all goes according to plan,
millions of viewers will ring in 2016 by watching the final minutes of the
second game.

''The College Football Playoff will change the paradigm of New Year's Eve in
this country,'' said Bill Hancock, the Playoff's executive director.

But grounds for skepticism are obvious. In fact, although it is committed to
having the semifinals frequently appear on New Year's Eve over the long term,
ESPN unsuccessfully sought to stage the semifinals this season on Jan. 2, a
Saturday.

''We know there are challenges,'' said Ilan Ben-Hanan, vice president for
college sports programming at ESPN, which has a 12-year, $7.3 billion deal to
broadcast the Playoff and its associated bowl games. ''There are inevitably
fewer people home watching on New Year's Eve than New Year's Day. Anyone who
suggests otherwise is not being authentic.''

He added, ''It's going to be a matter of asking fans to plan accordingly.''

Gary Danielson, a CBS college football analyst, took a more optimistic view. ''I
don't think it's going to be a problem,'' he said. ''Twenty-four million people
tuned into Fox to watch a debate.''

As the second season of the playoffs era begins, the biggest challenge facing
college football is to live up to a debut year in which almost everything went
right.

The first playoffs ended with a competitive game, in which Ohio State beat
Oregon before 85,000 fans -- and 33.4 million television viewers, the record for
a cable broadcast. The semifinals also included Florida State, which featured
the Heisman Trophy winner Jameis Winston, and Alabama, one of the sport's most
pedigreed programs. Those two games were the third- and second-most-viewed cable
broadcasts ever.

Future serendipity is not guaranteed. A Baylor-Clemson semifinal, for example,
would surely attract a smaller audience than Ohio State-Alabama. And last
season's semifinals took place on Jan. 1, a day traditionally associated with
and perhaps uniquely suited to fans' sitting on their couches for eight straight
hours watching college football.

At 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. Eastern on Dec. 31, the Cotton Bowl and the Orange Bowl
will kick off (not necessarily in that order), featuring the top four teams in
the selection committee's final rankings, which will be released Dec. 6. (The
No. 1 team will be placed where it has more home-field advantage and play the
No. 4.) The winners will play for the title on Jan. 11 at University of Phoenix
Stadium in Glendale, Ariz.

Despite the potential for the semifinals to be overshadowed by traditional games
like the Rose Bowl and the Sugar Bowl, which will be played in their customary
spots on New Year's Day, the date of the first two playoff games should not
considerably affect a crucial feature of the Playoff: its enhancement of the
regular season.

Last year's move to a four-team bracket allowed the eventual champion, Ohio
State, to make it in, as it almost certainly would not have under the two-team
Bowl Championship Series (the Buckeyes were the No. 4 seed).

While the B.C.S.'s minuscule margin for error sometimes made Novembers feel like
grim slogs to see how few teams would avoid losing, last year offered
late-season hope to more than a dozen teams. Would two-loss Arizona beat Oregon
again and sneak in? Might Kansas State play Big 12 spoiler? Could Georgia make
its conference championship game and knock off Alabama? (The answers were no, no
and no, but watching the questions play out was riveting.)

''There might have been 25 teams alive in the last three weeks, including the
Mississippi States and Arizona States,'' Danielson said, ''and that is nothing
but good for college football.''

While the selection committee deliberated behind closed doors, Arkansas Athletic
Director Jeff Long, the chairman, discussed the rankings each Tuesday night
starting in late October on ESPN. That made the process less opaque than the
B.C.S.'s algorithm or the N.C.A.A. men's basketball selection committee's
one-time bracket drop. Over the weeks, it also allowed careful observers to
discern the committee's internal logic.

Last year, that logic doomed the Big 12. Because it lacks a championship game,
its leading teams, Baylor and Texas Christian, played one game fewer than the
playoffs' four eventual contestants.

As long as the playoffs remain at four teams, at least one of the five major
conferences will be locked out, and the well of outrage will never run dry. With
T.C.U. and Baylor both ranked in this season's Associated Press preseason top
four, there is already plenty to discuss.

Novel possibilities remain. Notre Dame, an independent and the No. 11 team in
the A.P. poll, could win a spot, forcing the snubs of at least two power
conferences. No. 23 Boise State -- fresh off a Fiesta Bowl victory over Arizona
-- could crash the party this year out of the second-tier Mountain West
Conference.

On one front of lasting interest, however, everything remains the same: It is
still a four-team Playoff. Despite rumblings that so small a pool in so
lucrative a postseason would soon require expansion, Hancock continues to insist
that the current arrangement, which in theory expands opportunities without
diluting the regular season, will run its full 12-year course.

''I understand that more people want more college football,'' Hancock said,
''and it's a good problem to have.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/any-plans-for-new-years-eve-the-college
-football-playoff-has-some.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION (93%); SPORTS
(91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%);
TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); EXTRA
CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%);
TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (75%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Evening Hours

BYLINE: By BILL CUNNINGHAM

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 234 words


Aug. 22: The Preservation Society of Newport County had a white-tie dinner dance
for coach drivers at the Breakers, the former home of Cornelius Vanderbilt II.
More than 550 guests gathered on the terrace overlooking the ocean. The coach
owners came from as far away as Florida.

Aug. 23: 6. The weekend concluded with a luncheon hosted by Diana and Freddy
Prince for 200 people at Marble House, a former home of William K. Vanderbilt.
7. Coaches and drivers gathered on the lawn of Chateau-sur-Mer for a portrait.

Aug. 21: Pamela and David Ford gave a dinner dance at their home, Miramar, in
honor of the coaches. The celebration took place 100 years to the day after
Eleanor Widener hosted the first housewarming for Miramar, which the Fords have
completely restored. The evening included a fireworks display over the ocean.

Aug. 22: Guests arrived at the Breakers stable for the morning drive around
Newport.

Aug. 21: At 7 p.m., three of the coaches arrived at the Ledges, the Cushing
compound that is on a bluff overlooking the ocean. Wooden cottages were a
typical Newport structure until the legendary palatial villas arrived in the
late 19th century.

Aug. 22: The coach drivers assembled on the lawn of the Elms to present a
display of the coaching sport, at no cost to the approximately 3,500 people who
gathered to see it. Coaches passed through the elaborate sunken gardens of the
estate, right.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. GLORIA AUSTIN. 2. From left, seated, LOUIS PIANCONE, HARVEY
WALLER, WILLIAM GINNS, FREDERICK EAYRS and KENNETH LINDH. From left, standing,
JAMES MILLER, JOHN HUNT, GUY TORSILIERI, WALTER EAYRS, JUSTIN WILEY, SIR PAUL
NICHOLSON, WILLIAM STAPLES, DR. TIMOTHY BUTTERFIELD, JOHN WHITE, JOHN BROWN,
FRED HOLLAENDER and CHARLES MATHESON. 3. From left, PAMELA OWENS, PAMELA FORD
and BEVERLY LITTLE. 4. MARY VAN PELT, left, and LESLIE HULL. 5. MR. LINDH with
his mother, LYNDA LINDH, whose late husband, David Lindh, organized the weekend
for decades.
8. Miramar. 9. From left, EUGENE and LYNN ROBERTS with DIANE BROWN. 10. DAVID
and PAMELA FORD. 11. Some guests arrived at the ball in coaches.
12. From left, DIANA PRINCE, EADDO KIERNAN, MAUREEN CHILTON, JULIE and CHARLES
MATHESON Sr. 13. DIANA SYLVARIA and PAUL SZAPARY. 14. MR. FORD and his sister
DALE FORD.
 15. From left, JACKIE and NICKY DREXEL, MINNIE CUSHING COLEMAN and her brother,
HOWARD CUSHING. 16. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL CUNNINGHAM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: PRESERVATION SOCIETY OF NEWPORT COUNTY (84%)

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (92%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paperback Row

BYLINE: By JOUMANA KHATIB

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 501 words


THE BOOK OF STRANGE NEW THINGS, by ­Michel Faber. (Hogarth, $17.) At the request
of an alien population several galaxies away, a Christian missionary travels to
a distant planet, leaving his wife behind on Earth. Faber, whom our reviewer,
Marcel Theroux, called ''a master of the weird,'' skillfully handles the
otherworldly in this speculative novel.

THE SHORT AND TRAGIC LIFE OF ROBERT PEACE: A Brilliant Young Man Who Left Newark
for the Ivy League, by Jeff Hobbs. (Scribner, $16.) In this heartbreaking
biography, the author reconstructs the life of his college roommate, Peace, a
talented student who navigated a difficult childhood and straddled both academia
and the drug trade until his violent murder. Though Hobbs focuses on Peace's
story, he also sustains a narrative of the sociological forces that failed his
friend.

STATION ELEVEN, by Emily St. John Mandel. (Vintage, $15.95.) At the outset of
this novel, a beloved actor dies suddenly onstage while performing as King Lear,
and in short order a deadly flu pandemic kills most of the world's population.
Years later, Kirsten Raymonde is part of a roving troupe of musicians and actors
intent on preserving appreciation for the arts, even in calamitous times. After
arriving in a settlement ruled by a cruel religious fanatic, the group finds its
own survival at risk.

THERE GOES GRAVITY: A Life in Rock and Roll, by Lisa Robinson. (Riverhead, $16.)
Robinson, a pioneering female music journalist, has had enviable access to some
of the industry's most popular figures throughout her career. In her memoir, she
restages vignettes observed from her impressive perch, including intimate views
of the Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin and other titans of rock.

HOW TO BUILD A GIRL, by Caitlin Moran. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) Moran's
previous book, ''How to Be a Woman,'' was equal parts memoir and feminist
manifesto, hilariously recounting how the author learned to combat sexism and
urging other women to do the same. She revisits these themes in this loosely
autobiographical novel, which follows Johanna Morrigan, a teenager in 1990s
­working-class Britain, as she invents a vibrant new persona for herself.

DANUBIA: A Personal History of Habsburg Europe, by Simon Winder. (Picador, $20.)
Operating on a hereditary mix of ''cunning, dimness, luck and brilliance,'' the
Hapsburg monarchy was once a substantial global power, ruling Central Europe
from the Middle Ages until World War I. Winder captures the quirks of the
dynasty, building on years of research and travels to forgotten corners of
former Hapsburg lands.

FIVES AND TWENTY-FIVES, by Michael Pitre. (Bloomsbury, $17.) Pitre, a former
Marine, explores the emotional complexity of combat and its aftermath in this
novel, which follows three members of a platoon in wartime Iraq: Lieutenant
Donovan, an unlikely young Marine; Doc Pleasant, a paramedic whose optimism has
waned after watching friends die at war; and Dodge, their Iraqi translator who
fervently loves American culture.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/paperback-row.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FICTION LITERATURE
(90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES
(89%); RELIGION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(75%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%);
POPULATION SIZE (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); POP & ROCK (71%); MUSIC (66%);
FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (64%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (62%); WORLD WAR I
(61%); PARAMEDICS (60%); EPIDEMICS (52%); INFLUENZA (52%)

STATE: EARTH (92%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sling Shot

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK PANORAMA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 27 words


Jogging through Carl Schurz Park on a steamy evening last week, the photographer
came upon a couple who had found a less intense way to spend their leisure time.



URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption; News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Galloping Away to a Place Beyond Words

BYLINE: By ALIA VOLZ

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ON WORK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1117 words


On Thursday at noon, I ditch the San Francisco courthouse where I work as a
Spanish interpreter and high-tail it home to swap my conservative suit for
breeches and dusty paddock boots. I arm myself with allergy pills, nasal spray
and a puff from an asthma inhaler. Patches on my windbreaker and baseball cap
identify me as a National Park Service volunteer.

I take the Golden Gate Bridge out of the city. Just across the bridge await the
Marin Headlands, a swooping series of promontories and wind-swept hills fronting
the Pacific. Only a few minutes from the booming city, this wild space is home
to bobcats, coyotes, red-tailed hawks, herons, rabbits, snakes and the
occasional mountain lion. A mile down a fire road stands the corrugated-metal
barn that houses the four horses of the Mounted Patrol.

My favorite patrol partner, a caramel dun named Cobbo, nickers in greeting. I
inhale her breakfasty scent -- like espresso, slightly burned toast with
cinnamon and lots of butter, and an undertone of meat. After checking the
logbook for updates, I troll the paddocks for manure, which I shovel into a
wheelbarrow and trundle to a reeking mountain of poop hidden inside a shipping
container. I haul hay, scrub algae-caked water buckets, dole out vitamins, pick
hooves, and tend to wounds and scrapes.

These dusty, sweaty chores are a striking contrast to my usual job, where I sit
at a polished mahogany desk under fluorescent lights and interpret legalese into
a microphone. The transition from mental to physical work is not always easy.
The muscles of my back, shoulders and thighs protest. Itchy hay creeps into my
clothes. There are days I'm not in the mood, but if I didn't show up for my
shift, the horses wouldn't eat.

All little girls love horses, or so they say. But I had it bad. At 3 years old,
I started my ''pony fund'' -- pennies saved in a pickle jar decorated with
Crayola horse drawings. In the 1980s, my hippie family lived in the boondocks in
Mendocino County. We never had much money, but my mom scraped together enough
for riding lessons.

My teacher, Susan, was blunt, tough and wholly unmoved by whining. I was only 4
when she sent me alone into her pasture armed with a bucket of grain and a
halter. Twelve horses closed in; teeth snapped and hooves flew as they bickered
over the snack. I dropped the bucket and stumbled out of the fray. Once the
grain was gone, the herd drifted. A swaybacked white gelding lingered behind,
radiating benevolence. I couldn't reach to buckle the halter behind his ears.
''Stand on the damn bucket!'' Susan yelled from the gate. Oh. I flipped the
bucket, climbed on top, and caught my first horse.

In a photo my mom shot that day, I'm wearing cowboy boots and a baseball cap
adorned with glitter-glue horses. My hips are cocked, arms akimbo, and I'm
grinning with all my milk teeth.

Shortly before my 10th birthday, my mom, an artist, sold a large painting and
used the cash to buy my first horse, a scrappy pinto named Tango. My parents had
recently divorced, and I wasn't seeing my father much. Mom called the horse my
consolation prize.

Tango lived at a dilapidated barn near the ocean. We'd tear down the beach at a
dead gallop, wind blowing tears into my hair, my heart pounding in time with
Tango's hooves.

Maintaining a horse habit was no easy feat for a single parent with an iffy
income. We were always broke. ''Well,'' my mom would say, ''it's cheaper than a
lifetime of therapy.''

Once I've finished the chores, I saddle Cobbo for our afternoon patrol. The
relatively flat fire road is popular with cyclists, joggers and stroller
pushers. A little girl charges toward us with flailing arms. ''Look!'' she
screams. ''It's a horsie!'' Many horses would bolt in terror, but Cobbo is a
pro; nothing fazes her.

The girl stops several feet away, intimidated by the sheer size of a real horse.
''Um, can I pet it?'' she asks. Soon, Cobbo is engulfed by little people. To
city kids, she's a magical creature.

While Cobbo entertains the children, I chat with parents. Making personal
connections is a vital part of my volunteer job, especially with the federally
funded National Park Service under budgetary fire.

My walkie-talkie connects me to law enforcement and ranger dispatch. Volunteers
have been first responders to bicycle accidents and diabetic emergencies. But
mostly, Cobbo and I are ambassadors. I hand out maps, answer questions about
flora and fauna, and tolerate unfunny jokes about horse poop.

In high school, I earned my horse's keep by working for dressage and
hunter-jumper trainers in Sonoma County. I rode hard, sometimes 10 horses in a
day, arriving home after dark, exhausted. I competed in horse shows,
experiencing the pressures of competition and the elation of winning ribbons.

I believed that riding would be my life's work, that I would compete
professionally. At the same time, I felt drawn to the electric pace and cultural
vibrancy of the city. I made some human friends, and my attention drifted to
parties and punk bands. The girl who loved horses was no longer my entire
identity. When my mom decided to relocate us to San Francisco, my world
reversed. I gave my mare to a neighbor who had a large pasture and I became a
city girl.

They say that if you do what you love, you'll never work a day in your life.
During the two decades I didn't ride, every day felt like work. But when I began
donating Thursday afternoons to the Mounted Patrol, it felt like coming home to
myself.

In daily life, language clutters my brain. In court, I specialize in high-stakes
semantics. Whether an immigrant is granted or denied asylum can sometimes hinge
on a precise translation. In the hills, language drifts away.

The headlands are a dead zone for cellphone reception, leaving me without access
to emails, texts or social media. Nevertheless, I feel no urge to communicate.
This is the only place in my life where there are no words.

With no hikers or cyclists in sight, I gather my reins and urge Cobbo into a
plunging gallop. She loves this part and doesn't have to be asked twice. Her
ears flatten to keep the wind out, and her mane whips across my arms. Cobbo
forgets she's a domestic trail horse and reclaims the mustang blood in her
veins. I forget I'm an urban professional, dragging my successes and failures
with me.

All these years later, Mom is still right: My weekly sessions with the Mounted
Patrol horses do more for my peace of mind than any shrink could.

When I return to the city, hair tangled, eyes swollen from allergies, black
half-moons crowning my fingernails, I linger for a while in my unclean clothes,
Cobbo's scent on my hands.

Send submissions to onwork@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/jobs/galloping-away-to-a-place-beyond-words.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LILY PADULA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (89%); ALLERGIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); SPORTS
INSTRUCTION (76%); BIRDS (74%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (73%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS
(73%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); ASTHMA (72%); AEROSOL DRUGS (72%); NATIONAL PARKS
(71%); MAMMALS (57%); WILD CATS (57%)

COMPANY: CRAYOLA LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (52%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York City F.C. Stumbles as Crew Move Into Second

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; CREW 2, N.Y.C.F.C. 1; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 116 words


Justin Meram scored in the 83rd minute, and the Columbus Crew beat New York City
F.C., 2-1, at Yankee Stadium on Saturday to move into second place in the
Eastern Conference.

The Crew (11-8-8) capitalized on a takeaway near midfield, leading to an opening
for Meram up the left side. His shot rolled through a couple of defenders and
bounced home off the inside of the far post.

Columbus's Federico Higuain opened the scoring with a hard-bouncing header off
Wil Trapp's corner in the 10th minute.

Andrew Jacobson tied it for New York City F.C. in the 20th minute with a blast
from far outside the box.

New York City F.C. (7-13-7) is 1-4-1 in August and is in seventh place in the
10-team East.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/soccer/new-york-city-fc-stumbles-as-cre
w-move-into-second.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Players' Names Spawn a Mouthful of Errors

BYLINE: By RAVI UBHA

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1070 words


With a stadium bearing his name at the United States Open, an obvious link binds
the jazz legend Louis Armstrong to tennis. But one of Armstrong's recordings
with Ella Fitzgerald, ''Let's Call the Whole Thing Off,'' at times encapsulates
a subtle feature of matches.

Akin to one of the song's lines, ''You like tomato and I like tomahto,'' the
names of tennis players intermittently prompt different pronunciations among
chair umpires. Broadcasters can vary, too, in how they say a name in a sport
that contains 51 nationalities in the top 100 of the rankings.

While such differences in interpreting designation never affect a match as
groundstrokes or injuries do, wildly incorrect versions can draw the ire of
players and spark outrage on social media.

Indeed, the Twitter boom means perceived gaffes are quickly critiqued.

Viktor Troicki of Serbia has been a regular on the ATP World Tour for most of
the past seven years, but this year, a chair umpire struggled with his surname.

He did not remember the site or identity of the official, but he knew what would
have happened if the matter had not been rectified.

''I would have flipped out on him,'' said Troicki, whose name is pronounced
TROYT-ski.

''It can be frustrating,'' he added. ''I actually think there are a lot more
difficult names than mine.''

To that end, Troicki's tongue twister, he said, comes courtesy of the Ukrainian
Alexandr Dolgopolov.

Troicki's fellow Serb and close friend Novak Djokovic pronounces his family name
JOE-ko-vitch.

Chair umpires hardly ever blunder nowadays, given his top ranking and victories
in nine majors, yet pundits occasionally refer to him as JOCK-o-vitch.

''It's not easy to pronounce,'' Djokovic told reporters at the Coupe Rogers in
August, referring to his last name. ''Let's say I appreciate the effort that
people put into it to pronounce it properly.''

Perhaps the greatest debate surrounding the pronunciation of a leading men's
player's name relates to the Czech Tomas Berdych, a finalist at Wimbledon in
2010.

''Even now, the chair umpires were not able to do that quite correctly,''
Berdych said.

The two most common versions of Berdych, at least among those whose mother
tongue is English, are BER-ditch and BER-dick. Neither is accurate.

''These are the two pronunciations of the name pretty much that's stayed with me
from the beginning, since I left the Czech borders,'' he said.

Berdych pronounces his name BAYR-dicht -- or close to it. Guesswork might be
unnecessary in the future, since several player pages on the ATP website,
recently redesigned, incorporate pros uttering their own names. Berdych and
Djokovic are two of them.

Berdych's parents, Martin and Hana, observe the umpire's pronunciation during
his matches and occasionally give their son feedback.

''If there is someone who can say it right, they're like, 'Wow, that person was
pretty good,' '' Berdych said.

Berdych acknowledges, though, that the Czech language is ''very specific and
very difficult'' for outsiders.

His surname was a topic of discussion during Wimbledon, said Andrea Hlavackova,
a Czech who has won in doubles and mixed doubles at the United States Open.
Hlavackova said that while working for BBC radio during Wimbledon, she and other
commentators were told to switch pronunciation from BER-ditch to BER-dick. She
said she attempted to set the record straight.

''I said, I don't know if you should change it from wrong to wrong again,''
Hlavackova said.

Hlavackova knows the feeling of having her surname mispronounced, so much so
that when asked by non-Czechs how to say her name, she bypasses the correct
Hla-VATCH-ko-va for Hla-va-KO-va.

Hlavackova confronts chair umpires only when they get it ''really wrong.''

''But you have to be a bit frustrated in a match to even do this,'' she said.
''It probably shows that you are not concentrating.''

Maybe the highest-profile case of a chair umpire mangling a player's name dates
to 1994, when Goran Ivanisevic's name was mangled during a match with Patrick
Rafter in an exhibition in Adelaide ahead of the Australian Open.

Based on a YouTube clip clicked more than 580,000 times, Ivanisevic, from
Croatia, at first seemed puzzled and sought to educate the umpire.

The umpire continued to err, to Ivanisevic's growing frustration, before
correcting his errors late in the third set.

''It's important, I think, especially at the top level of the game'' to get
names right, said Milos Raonic, a Canadian born in Montenegro who competed at
last year's ATP World Tour final, ''because of respect to the vast nationalities
we have. And out of respect to the players' culture, I think it's important you
represent them and pronounce their names correctly.''

In another instance, Julia Goerges became annoyed when a chair umpire repeatedly
mispronounced her surname at Wimbledon in 2011. Exasperated, the 50th-ranked
Goerges eventually confronted him.

''I was just remembering why before the coin toss he didn't ask me the way he
should pronounce my name, and I just told him that,'' said Goerges, pronounced
GUR-gess with two hard G's.

No formal protocol exists for chair umpires when they pronounce names, said all
three governing bodies heading the game: the ATP, the WTA and the International
Tennis Federation.

If they are uncertain, options include asking other umpires and tour staff,
using media guides and, as Goerges suggested, speaking to the player in question
sometime around the coin toss.

The ATP turned down a request to speak to any of its umpires.

David Mercer, a top umpire in the 1970s and '80s, said he always checked with a
player if unsure of the proper pronunciation. As he is a longstanding
commentator, pronouncing names correctly remains important to Mercer.

''Most of the top players you would know, but if you were doing a qualifier or
someone you didn't know, you would just say, 'Can I just check the right way to
pronounce your name?' '' Mercer said.

He receives letters and emails if deemed to mispronounce names.

By now, Djokovic, Raonic (RAU-nitch, not RAU-nick or RAY-o-nick) and Goerges
rarely encounter issues on court, and the same applies to Troicki at the more
prestigious tournaments.

Berdych and Hlavackova, meanwhile, have gotten used to their predicament and are
not greatly offended.

Besides, said Hlavackova, she can boast having a second, ''international name.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/tennis/biggest-hits-on-the-court-surnam
es-absorb-their-share.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Wimbledon chair umpire. No formal protocol exists for the
pronunciation of players' names. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEON NEAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS OFFICIATING (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); REFEREES &
UMPIRES (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS
(78%); ATHLETES (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); RANKINGS (75%); SOCIAL MEDIA
(73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); SKIING (70%)

PERSON: NOVAK DJOKOVIC (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); SERBIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hip-Hop, Steeped in Heritage

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI and JON CARAMANICA

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1807 words


In the hit Broadway musical ''Hamilton,'' Lin-Manuel Miranda tells the story of
Alexander Hamilton, once the most overlooked founding father, by seamlessly
weaving hip-hop into a musical theater framework. It's a novel hybridization,
but is Mr. Miranda successfully paying tribute to both traditions or somehow
weakening one of them? How specific are his references? How skillful is the
rapping? Anthony Tommasini, the chief classical music critic of The New York
Times and an avowed musical theater enthusiast, spoke with Jon Caramanica, a pop
music critic for The Times, about technical fluency, Stephen Sondheim and Biggie
Smalls. These are excerpts from their conversation.

ANTHONY TOMMASINI To start with, the idea of drawing on hip-hop to tell the
story of Hamilton -- his personal struggles, his idealism, his relationship with
our contentious founding fathers -- was thrillingly inspired. On a basic level,
the American Revolution was driven by words: fiery statements of principle;
charges of imperialist oppression; accusations of betrayal; fine points of
governance; even wordy obfuscations to gloss over disagreements that could have
sabotaged the country at its start. What better musical genre to tell this tale?

But I was pleased to read recent articles in The Times about Miranda's
background in American musical theater and his polyglot musical language. The
score of ''Hamilton'' abounds with songs, complex vocal ensembles and other
elements that speak to his love of the musical theater heritage. I share that
love.

At its core, musical theater is about the smart, elegant and playful combination
of words and music. But the mix is not 50-50: Words drive the form. And in a
great musical, every element of the music supports and lifts the words. That's
what I revere about Stephen Sondheim. Every detail of his ingenious and
beautiful music calls your attention to his great lyrics. Miranda's music is
very different from Sondheim's, but I had a Sondheimesque experience at
''Hamilton.'' Every musical moment in that score swept me into the smart and
dazzling rapping.

JON CARAMANICA What struck me most was the way Miranda uses hip-hop not just as
a mode -- adding rapping into a world of singing, which has been done on
Broadway before, though never this effectively -- but also as a context. He's
writing about a moment of total political upheaval, when upstart thinkers were
building a nation on principles vastly different from the ones they fled. Of
course that requires a fresh musical approach. It's a position statement about
the nation's founding ideals, the revolution that was hip-hop, and also the
unrelenting whiteness of Broadway. It's not by accident that the whole of the
main cast of Hamilton is nonwhite, apart from the king.

And here's one way that Hamilton feels truly hip-hop to me: It encourages you to
side with -- or at least be sympathetic to -- the bad guy.

TOMMASINI Of course, musical theater and opera composers have done that for
centuries, by writing complex, nuanced music and scenes for villains. Think of
the moment in Act I of Puccini's ''Tosca'' when Scarpia, the menacing chief of
police, who lusts after Tosca, greets her when she enters the church: Having
dipped his fingers in holy water, he offers his hand to Tosca to touch, so she
may perform the sign of the cross. The music makes this twisted, lecherous and
powerful man seem, for a moment, gallant and devout.

Hip-hop wins sympathy for the bad guy in a more aggressive, pummeling way. It's
also often a stinging complaint against injustice. Maybe that's why Aaron Burr
seems so compelling in ''Hamilton.'' He opens the show, vehemently rapping his
grievances about the unfairness of his situation. How did Hamilton, of all
people, he asks, a ''bastard, orphan son of a whore and a Scotsman,'' dropped in
the middle of forgotten spot in the Caribbean, grow to be a ''hero and a
scholar?''

Another bad guy we sympathize with, now that I think about it, is King George.
Miranda gives him that sneering yet wonderfully breezy song ''You'll Be Back,''
when the king anticipates that the colonists' dream of independence will
puncture. The song reminded me of something out of Herman's Hermits, with its
''da da-da dat da'' refrains.

I've heard that some real hip-hop devotees find the music of ''Hamilton'' too,
well, watered down with musical theater elements for their taste. What do you
think?

CARAMANICA Well sure, but looking for pure, uncut hip-hop in a Broadway musical
is a fool's game, and Miranda is no fool. Hip-hop is a native tongue to him, but
he's putting it in service of the musical. His hip-hop references are expedient
first, winks to those in the know second, and true to the genre's tenets last.
There is a nerd instinct in hip-hop, particularly lyrically minded hip-hop -- it
can be collegiate at times. What inspires Miranda is assonance, polysyllabic
rhyme, cramming bars full of detail. He's also someone who understands rapping
as a game of one-upmanship -- hence the pair of scenes in which Hamilton and
Thomas Jefferson face off, which could have come from ''8 Mile'' or Scribble
Jam.

TOMMASINI Those two rap battles are brilliant. Hamilton, indignant and furious,
becomes ballistic in his denunciations, almost like gangster rap.

CARAMANICA I'll tell you a few of the hip-hop references that peek through. When
Hamilton says, ''I'm only 19, but my mind is old,'' in ''My Shot,'' (a line
echoed by his son Philip later), that's Prodigy of Mobb Deep, on ''Shook Ones
Part II.'' There's a bit of the hip-hop classic ''The Message'' in ''What'd I
Miss.'' And ''Say No to This,'' when Hamilton's eye begins wandering, starts
with a quote from LL Cool J's ''I Need Love.''

The section of ''Right Hand Man'' in which George Washington is courting
Hamilton to come work by his side reminded me of ''Coming of Age,'' from Jay Z's
debut album, ''Reasonable Doubt.'' It's a back-and-forth between him and a
hungry protégé, Memphis Bleek. Jay is looking for an eager student, and I can
imagine Bleek coming back at him with Hamilton's refrain: ''I am not throwing
away my shot.''

And Biggie, Biggie, Biggie. For a certain stripe of hip-hop fan, Biggie is the
ne plus ultra. I've got all of ''Ready to Die'' and ''Life After Death''
committed to memory, and I suspect Miranda does, too. ''10 Duel Commandments''
is, natch, a remake of ''10 Crack Commandments,'' with its same blend of horror
and pathos. And the ''if you don't know, now you know'' Jefferson drops in
''Schuyler Defeated'' is straight out of ''Juicy.''

But most strikingly, when Hamilton confronts his own mortality, in ''It's Quiet
Uptown,'' I couldn't help but think about Biggie's ''Suicidal Thoughts,'' still
one of the most chilling hip-hop songs of all time. The characters have
different paths, but both have ended up exhausted, frayed, desperate.

To me, Miranda is a storyteller first and a rapper maybe fifth, or maybe a
storyteller in an age when rapping is the most effective megaphone.

TOMMASINI That's an interesting way to frame Miranda's approach. This suggests
another connection to the musical theater tradition. Sondheim, who has been an
important mentor to Miranda, has written countless songs that advance the story
and reveal something about a character, even if this embeds the song in the
context of the larger work and means it may have no real independent life. His
critics point to this as a shortcoming; his admirers see it as a hallmark of his
greatness. The songs in ''Hamilton'' are also embedded into Miranda's larger
score. Not many would make ''sense'' performed on their own. To me, this
represents creative daring. But I have to adjust, in rap, to going along with
what in musical theater are called ''false rhymes.'' You know, like these from
the opening song: ''The ten-dollar founding father without a father/Got a lot
farther by working a lot harder.''

CARAMANICA That reminds me of another Miranda trick: rhyming the same word --
say, ''sir'' -- when really the rhyme is in the preceding syllable. That's
classic Cam'ron.

TOMMASINI Miranda embraces these components of hip-hop and turns them into
something fresh and powerful in the spirit of musical theater. His words have
punch and elegance. And he sets them to music in ways that make the words come
through -- another instinct right out of musical theater.

CARAMANICA And he's flexible with the music, too. Jefferson's arrival in Act II
heralds a shift in the show's relationship to hip-hop: After an act more or less
steeped in New York, we're in the South. It's there in Daveed Diggs's nimble
rapping -- he's easily the best technical rapper in the show -- and also in some
of the references, like when he's making it rain with leaflets during ''The
Reynolds Pamphlet.'' That has a skittish, double-time strip club anthem beat, as
if the Richard Rodgers stage was the Atlanta flesh palace Magic City.

In addition to being an actor, Diggs [who plays both Jefferson and the Marquis
de Lafayette] is a rapper in his own right. His group is called clipping, and
they're like a Death Grips you'd actually want to listen to. They're from Los
Angeles, and you hear echoes of that city's Project Blowed movement. Diggs's
rapping is frenetic and complicated but deeply controlled, a skill that works in
the avant-rap underground and, as it happens, on Broadway.

TOMMASINI Your descriptions suggest that Miranda's inspirations from hip-hop are
precise. What he draws from musical theater might be more general, though
ever-present. At crucial moments, when a character is in crisis or coming to a
life-defining realization, Miranda gives us what sounds pretty close to an
unabashed musical theater song. The most moving is ''That Would Be Enough,''
when Eliza, Hamilton's devoted wife, is pregnant with their first child. She has
begged Washington to send her husband -- Washington's right-hand man -- home to
her. The song is a plea from Eliza to her husband to appreciate the simplicities
of family life:

''Look at where you are

Look at where you started

The fact that you are alive is a miracle

Just stay alive

That would be enough.''

CARAMANICA Would this be the place to note, though, that I don't think
''Hamilton'' passes the Bechdel Test? It's reliance on masculinity is pretty
hip-hop, too. So I'm glad Eliza gets the last word.

But really, this show is a tangled love story between Hamilton and Burr. And
yes, as you suggested, this is absolutely Burr's show. As Burr, Leslie Odom Jr.
has tremendous carriage, but also he's creeping around the stage, forever
mindful of being found out. Hamilton is the hero and the martyr. But Burr
second-guesses himself. He protects a secret inner life. He'll take out anyone
who threatens to so much as scratch his flawless exterior. Say hi to the bad guy
-- he doesn't plan to die.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/theater/exploring-hamilton-and-hip-hop-steeped
-in-heritage.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daveed Diggs, left, and Lin-Manuel Miranda in ''Hamilton'' at
the Richard Rodgers Theater. Below, Mr. Miranda and Phillipa Soo in the musical.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Right, George Gagnidze and Patricia Racette in ''Tosca'' at the Metropolitan
Opera in 2012. Below, LL Cool J's single ''I Need Love.'' Below center, Stephen
Sondheim in his apartment in Manhattan in 2009. Below right, Biggie Smalls in a
photograph from 1997. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.
 VENUS BERNARDO-PRUDHOMME/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (94%); MUSIC (92%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC
(90%); THEATER (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%);
MULTILINGUALISM (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); POP &
ROCK (73%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bystander's Death Shows Risks in Gun-Buy Stings

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ; Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 964 words


In a dangerous profession, it is among the most dangerous of jobs. The police
officers who go undercover to arrest illegal firearms dealers can quickly find
themselves at the mercy of their targets, conducting big-money transactions in
close quarters with jumpy, suspicious criminals quick to draw guns.

One wrong step, and bullets will fly.

The hazards of the job were made tragically clear on Friday, when an
illegal-firearms sting involving an undercover New York City officer erupted in
gunfire on a suburban street in Mount Vernon, N.Y., resulting in the death of an
innocent bystander named Felix Kumi.

The New York Police Department said that in the midst of the sting, a suspect
pulled a gun on the undercover officer, stole the cash changing hands in the
transaction and ran. When the officer opened fire, police officials and
witnesses said, he shot the suspect, but he also hit Mr. Kumi, 61, who was
walking to retrieve his van from a nearby repair shop.

When it comes to undercover gun buys, the only thing that is certain is
unpredictability, according to police officials. Dealers must be met on their
terms and turf, territory, often in isolated, sparsely populated areas where a
close-trailing backup unit can immediately be spotted, Stephen Davis, the
department's chief spokesman, said.

Ambushes and surprise assaults are constant dangers, as are unexpected
encounters with law enforcement agents unaware of the sting.

''All of this exists in other police work, but you're dealing with an instrument
of death to begin with,'' Mr. Davis said. ''You have to be prepared to face
violence.''

The operation that unfolded on Friday was typical in that little went according
to plan. The suspect, Jeffrey Aristy, 28, had been under investigation for some
time, and undercover officers had bought numerous firearms from him in the past,
the police said. On Friday, Mr. Aristy arranged to meet an undercover officer in
the Bronx. When the officer arrived, Mr. Aristy asked that they drive about a
mile into Mount Vernon, a city just over the border in Westchester County, the
police said.

There, according to police officials, a third man climbed into the back seat of
the vehicle, put a gun to the officer's head and demanded money. That man, a
37-year-old whom police officials have not publicly named, grabbed the buy money
and fled.

The police said the officer gave chase and started firing, after the suspect
again pulled out the gun, which was later found to be fake. The suspect was hit
three times and was hospitalized in serious condition. Two bullets struck Mr.
Kumi in the torso.

Though Mr. Aristy, the suspected gun dealer, escaped during the melee, he was
later arrested, the police said. He was charged with criminal sale of firearms
and criminal sale of a controlled substance.

The officer involved was a member of the Police Department's Firearms
Investigations Unit, an elite group formed in 2000. Undercover officers assigned
to the unit are meticulously selected: They must play their roles flawlessly and
be able to improvise and adapt in tense situations.

''It takes a little more creativity and little more scrutiny and a little more
thought in selecting these people,'' Mr. Davis said, ''because they have to walk
the walk as well as talk the talk.''

The risks must be endured, police officials say, because illegal guns are a
scourge, used in many of the shootings and homicides that occur in the city.
Last year, the Firearms Investigations Unit was involved in at least 15
significant gun-sale investigations in New York. One of those inquiries led to
the arrest of Michael Quick, a dealer from Georgia, who authorities say sold
over 150 firearms, including assault weapons, to an undercover officer. Last
week, Mr. Quick was sentenced to 18 years in prison.

The unit removed about 1,100 illegal firearms from the city's streets in 2014,
mostly by making undercover purchases, the police said.

Mistakes, while rare, can be deadly.

In 2003, a series of missteps during an undercover gun buy on Staten Island led
to the deaths of two detectives with the Firearms Investigations Unit, James V.
Nemorin, 36, and Rodney J. Andrews, 34. The detectives were forced to allow two
of the buyers to sit behind them in their car, leaving them vulnerable to a
surprise attack. They were then diverted from their planned route into hilly,
unfamiliar terrain. At one point, the detectives lost contact with the four
units meant to provide backup.

The detectives' bodies were later found dumped on the street.

The man convicted in the killings, Ronell Wilson, is facing a federal death
sentence.

On Saturday morning, hours after being shot, Mr. Kumi died at Jacobi Medical
Center in the Bronx. He was surrounded by relatives and members of his church,
his daughter, Rachel Kumi, said.

''He was kind and loving and concerned and very generous,'' Ms. Kumi said,
wiping away tears as she sat on the stoop of the apartment building where the
family lives. ''If you needed anything, my father never said no.''

She added, ''It's a travesty that this happened.''

Mr. Kumi, who was born in Ghana and drove a school bus for more than a decade,
had lived in Mount Vernon for over 30 years, she said. He was a devout Jehovah's
Witness and went to church five nights a week for many hours at a time.

Around a half-dozen members of Mr. Kumi's church lingered on the stoop on
Saturday morning. They sobbed, hugged and tried to comfort Ms. Kumi.

On Saturday, William J. Bratton, the police commissioner, released a statement
expressing condolences to Mr. Kumi's family.

''Mr. Kumi was blameless, and this tragedy has tested and tried his family,''
the said in the statement. ''I pray that they may find comfort in their hope of
resurrection and awakening.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/bystanders-death-shows-risks-in-gun-b
uy-stings.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Family and friends of Felix Kumi on Saturday, a day after he was
fatally shot by a police officer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); GUN CONTROL
(90%); ARRESTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EYEWITNESSES
(89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES
(78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(60%); SUBURBS (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Tap on the Shoulder to Lenders

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 625 words


Home buyers who can't put at least 20 percent down usually have to carry private
mortgage insurance, often an expensive proposition. One good thing about
mortgage insurance, though, is that it doesn't last forever.

Private mortgage insurance protects the lender in the event that a borrower
stops making payments before building up much equity in the property. But a
borrower who diligently pays down a loan, eventually crossing that 20 percent
equity threshold, is no longer considered a big risk, and can expect to be
rewarded with cancellation of the mortgage insurance requirement.

Under the Homeowners Protection Act of 1998, lenders must terminate mortgage
insurance after a certain point, something that hadn't been done consistently
before then. The act set the termination date as the point at which the
principal balance on the loan is scheduled to reach 78 percent of the original
value of the home.

In other words, if you buy a home for $100,000 and put 10 percent down, your
starting loan balance is $90,000. Once you have paid enough toward principal
that the balance reaches $78,000, the mortgage insurance policy should be
automatically canceled.

A compliance bulletin issued earlier this month by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau suggests that the companies that process mortgage loans don't
always follow that rule precisely and sometimes collect premiums beyond the
termination date.

The bureau reminded servicers that automatic insurance cancellation is required
even if the value of the home has declined from the original value (in other
words, the sales price). Servicers may not require borrowers to obtain an
appraisal before cancellation, as ''the automatic termination date is not
dependent on fluctuations in property value,'' the bulletin said.

The law also creates a way to seek earlier cancellation. Borrowers may formally
request this when the principal balance reaches 80 percent of the original
value. In such a case, lenders aren't under obligation to cancel, and have the
right to require an appraisal. A borrower must be current on the loan to be
considered.

Homeowners are likely to apply for early cancellation when they've been paying
extra on the principal and when their equity has received a boost from
appreciating home values, said Keith T. Gumbinger, the vice president of
HSH.com, a financial publisher. But lenders' policies usually dictate that
''insurance can't be canceled for a minimum of two years, regardless of what
happens,'' he said, ''particularly when almost all the equity appreciation has
been due to property price appreciation. Conditions could quickly go the other
way.''

Still, the bureau's bulletin emphasized to servicers that they must consider
borrowers' cancellation requests using the 80 percent threshold established
under the Homeowners Protection Act, rather than a stricter threshold set by
investors.

The cancellation rules do not apply to the low-down-payment loans backed by the
Federal Housing Administration; borrowers must pay insurance for as long as they
have an F.H.A. loan.

Borrowers are often confused about when mortgage insurance should be terminated,
said Nicole Hamilton, the chief executive of Tactile Finance in New York, which
markets software that allows lenders to help borrowers compare the costs and
equity considerations of various loan types.

High-tech tools that clearly show a mortgage shopper what will happen to that
loan over time -- including the point at which insurance payments will no longer
be necessary -- can help demystify the process and improve the lender's
reputation for customer service, she said.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/reminder-private-mortgage-insurance
-is-temporary.html

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate
(Source: HSH.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (92%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (91%);
REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS
(89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); CONSUMER WATCHDOGS (78%); INSURANCE
POLICIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); CONSUMER
PROTECTION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Tropical Kingdom to 50th State

BYLINE: By JAN MORRIS.

Jan Morris is the author of some 40 books of travel, history, memoir and
fiction. She is Welsh and lives in Llanystumdwy.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1003 words


PARADISE OF THE PACIFICApproaching Hawai'i By Susanna MooreIllustrated. 303 pp.
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $26.  The most peculiar place on this planet, as I see
it from my vantage point in Wales, is the 50th state of the American union, the
Pacific archipelago called Hawaii. Everything about it is peculiar. Its capital,
Honolulu, is one of the remotest big cities on the face of the earth. Its
geography is weird, consisting as it does of some 130 assorted islands and
atolls, scattered across 1,500 miles of ocean. Its history is spectacularly
unexpected, beginning with mass immigrations of Pacific canoeists and
culminating in the virtual extinction of an American fleet by several hundred
Japanese airplanes. Its indigenous culture is a marvel of intricate legends,
faiths, musics and superstitions, and its native written language is a prodigy
of alliterations.

The novelist Susanna Moore (the author of two previous nonfiction books about
Hawaii) handsomely contributes to all this with the unworthily titled ''Paradise
of the Pacific,'' which sounds like a tourist brochure. Her book is in fact an
astonishingly learned summation of the Hawaiian meaning, elegantly written,
often delightfully entertaining and ultimately sad.

It is concerned with the fate of the indigenous people of the place since their
first contacts with the world at large around the end of the 18th century. The
Hawaiians already governed themselves as a unity, island rivalries having lately
been settled by the emergence of a monarchy under Hawaii's founding father,
Kamehameha the Great, who had 22 wives and was said to move ''in an aura of
violence.''

They were already being affected, though, by influences of the West, from
gonorrhea to Christianity, and these were famously first exemplified by the
arrival on their shores, in 1778, of the Yorkshireman James Cook, who was for
years popularly supposed to have been eaten by them.

He was not, but even in 1823, Moore tells us, missionaries from New England
thought the Hawaiians looked half-beast, half-human: ''Do they not form a link
in creation, connecting man with the brute?'' Well, then as now, they were
certainly unusual. As I understand it, their society was rigidly structured,
from patricians to untouchables, within a severe sort of universal code of
conduct and relationship called kapu, with frightening penalties and threats of
human sacrifice.

They had no written language, and they honored an immense assortment of gods and
miscellaneous spirits that inhabited, for example, reptiles, stones, canoes,
strange noises, planets, mists and the insane. What with innumerable curses and
spells flying back and forth all day and night, as Moore observes, life must
have been horribly confusing. No wonder the missionaries were taken aback,
especially perhaps when they learned that all ranks of Hawaiians went in for a
cheerful sport of temporary wife-swapping.

But anyway, if healthy minds in healthy bodies was a New England requirement
then, at least chieftainly Hawaiians, though frequently corpulent, were
impressively fit. They were handsome and tall -- even the women were often more
than six feet -- and they had marvelous white teeth. They were keen on outdoor
sports, too: sled-racing, rat-hunting with bows and arrows, mock battles and,
above all, surfing, which like everything else was firmly ritualized.

By 1827 the regent of this strange domain was Queen Kaahumanu, whose name meant
Cloak of Bird Feathers, and who had been converted to Christianity. She was a
widow of the founding father, and guardian of his young successor, and so far
had things changed in her kingdom in her time that she personally paid for the
printing of 3,000 copies of the Sermon on the Mount, in Hawaiian. Thus she
presided over, to use Moore's words, ''the fears and fantasies of a culture.''

She was hefty, liked flying kites, smoked a pipe, drank brandy she got from an
obliging Spanish ship-­deserter and was generally averse to the company of
women. But during her regency the Hawaiians became far more familiar with
visiting Westerners, as countless whalers and trading ships began to arrive from
several foreign countries.

Missionaries multiplied too, and grew in confidence and persuasion so
successfully that before she died Kaahumanu was able to end, specifically by her
own example, the omnipotent restrictions of kapu and its innumerable rules of
ritual.

With her death and its disappearance, it seems to me from a sometimes bemused
reading of this book, old Hawaii fell into languishment too, and never quite
recovered. On the one hand, the missionaries proved immensely capable in
bringing Western styles and standards to the islands; on the other hand, Western
materialism overwhelmed the old myths and mores, expressing itself not only in
the dubious behavior of drunken beachcombers, but in cosmopolitan immigration,
in capitalist development of many kinds and eventually in annexation by the
United States of America. The hereditary monarchy survived, almost in parody,
until 1893, but gradually Hawaii became less Hawaiian, as incomers outnumbered
indigenes, democracy displaced feudalism and English became the lingua franca of
the archipelago.

Never mind. Hawaii (governor: David Ige, Democrat) remains sufficiently peculiar
still. If citizens of Hawaiian stock today number less than 10 percent of the
population, the ancient language lingers among enthusiasts, in academia and in
officialdom, and of course in the inescapable tourist greeting of ''Aloha!''
They are surfing still at Waikiki, Kamehameha the Great still stands in majestic
effigy outside the Honolulu courthouse, and it is at least a tribute to the
extraordinary past when the chorus line on late-night TV breaks into a rousing
hula.

It is hardly the real thing, though (the dance was brought to earth, some say,
by an androgynous sister of the volcano goddess Pele). Better to switch it off,
ring for a Mai Tai and read this most moving evocation of a historical prodigy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/paradise-of-the-pacific-by-susann
a-moore.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: King Kamehameha the Great in a 19th-century engraving.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSAL HISTORY ARCHIVE/UIG VIA GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES
(90%); CANOEING & KAYAKING (89%); RELIGION (88%); BOATING & RAFTING (75%);
NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%);
CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (69%); FICTION LITERATURE
(68%); IMMIGRATION (55%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (51%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%)

STATE: HAWAII, USA (97%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); WALES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mix and Match

BYLINE: By JASON RIDER

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 48 words


Loud prints and colors from the pre-fall collections are subdued by tank tops,
jeans and sneakers -- and casual enough for everyday. On model: Protagonist top,
$360, theline.com; Alternative T-shirt, $44, alternativeapparel.com;Carolina
Herrera pants, $990, carolinaherrera.com.

Jason Rider



URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Young Hands in Mexico Feed Growing U.S. Demand for Heroin

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED; Paulina Villegas contributed reporting from El Calvario
and Mexico City.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words


EL CALVARIO, Mexico --  With her nimble hands, tiny feet and low center of
gravity, Angelica Guerrero Ortega makes an excellent opium harvester.

Deployed along the Sierra Madre del Sur, where a record poppy crop covers the
mountainsides in strokes of green, pink and purple, she navigates the inclines
with the deftness of a ballerina.

Though shy, she perks up when describing her craft: the delicate slits to the
bulb, the patient scraping of the gum, earning in one day more than her parents
do in a week.

That she is only 15 is not so important for the people of her tiny mountain
hamlet. If she and her classmates miss school for the harvest, so be it. In a
landscape of fallow opportunities, income outweighs education.

''It is the best option for us,'' Angelica said, leaning against a wood-plank
house in her village, where nearly all of the children work the fields. ''Back
down in the city, there is nothing for us, no opportunities.''

As heroin addiction soars in the United States, a boom is underway south of the
border, reflecting the two nations' troubled symbiosis. Officials from both
countries say that Mexican opium production increased by an estimated 50 percent
in 2014 alone, the result of a voracious American appetite, impoverished farmers
in Mexico and entrepreneurial drug cartels that straddle the border.

Abusers of prescription pharmaceuticals in America are looking for cheaper
highs, as a crackdown on painkiller abuse has made the habit highly expensive.
And the legalization of marijuana in some states has pushed down prices, leading
many Mexican farmers to switch crops. Cartels, meanwhile, have adapted, edging
into American markets once reserved for higher quality heroin from Southeast
Asia while pressing out of urban centers into suburbs and rural communities.

''The cartels have a pretty good handle on the appetite in the U.S.,'' said Jack
Riley, the deputy administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration. ''They
understand the prescription drug issue here, and that is one of the major
reasons why you are seeing the expansion of poppy production.''

The results have rattled both nations. In the United States, where deaths from
heroin overdose surged 175 percent between 2010 and 2014, politicians and drug
enforcement agents are scrambling to respond. In Mexico, where cartel violence
has pulsed through the nation, bringing the deaths and disappearances of
thousands, the government reports that it eradicated a record number of hectares
of poppy crops last year.

Nowhere is the toll of that surge more apparent than in Guerrero, the country's
most violent state, where rival drug factions perpetrate a war of bloody
competition and silent disappearances that have paralyzed the region. Here,
farmers are increasingly opting to grow poppies, cloaking remote mountainsides
in the robust crop to eke out a living in places like Calvario where, as far as
most are concerned, the government barely exists. To meet the demand, children
are enlisted in the harvest, out of necessity and convenience. The money is too
much to ignore for most, and the tricky terrain more manageable for those with
slighter frames.

The governor of Guerrero recently likened his state to Afghanistan, the world's
largest opium producer.

''We are pretty much in the same place, even though we are just one state and
they are a country,'' said Gov. Rogelio Ortega Martínez, whose state has seen
the sharpest increase in opium production nationwide.

But unlike Afghanistan, a nation writhing under the weight of more than three
decades of conflict, Guerrero is not an all-out war zone. The state capital has
a Burger King and a McDonald's. Guerrero is also home to the famous beaches and
resorts of Acapulco.

But where children like Angelica scale steep mountainsides to lance poppies and
collect the gummy brown opium that seeps out, there is an eerie similarity with
Afghanistan. In both places, the near absence of the state allows the industry
to flourish.

''It is not the drug production that generates underdevelopment,'' said Antonio
Mazzitelli, the head of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in Mexico.
''It is the lack of development that generates the opium cultivation.''

Or, in the words of one farmer in Calvario: ''There is no real order here. We
are governed by narcos.''

Not that anyone in Calvario much cares for -- or even knows -- of the broader
debate over the drug trade. Villagers see little harm in cultivating opium. No
one here uses the drug, or its derivative heroin, and the day rate for labor in
the poppy fields is many times what is paid for shucking corn.

Isolation breeds a certain detachment. Calvario, though just a few miles from
the state capital, is marooned an hour's drive up unpaved mountain switchbacks
littered with boulders and ruts. In the village of around 100 people, there is
limited awareness of the outside world. Some farmers are not entirely clear what
opium is even used for.

José Luis García, a farmer in Calvario who leases his land for opium
cultivation, asked more than once what exactly it was about poppies that drove
Americans so crazy. After hearing of the epidemic of addiction in the United
States, Mr. García paused for a moment to reflect on the ethics of growing
poppies.

''The fault is not with those who cultivate the opium,'' he said. ''It's with
the idiots who consume it.''

For years, Mexico has operated as much more than just a transport hub for drugs
bound for the United States. In addition to opium poppy, the cartels grow
marijuana and manufacture methamphetamines, textbook examples of the backward
and forward links that business students might encounter in their coursework. By
both growing and distributing, the drug cartels can keep more of the profit.

For farmers living in remote Calvario, opium cultivation has a certain logic. It
is a hardy plant, with two growing seasons that yield a modest harvest in the
summer and a more substantial one in the winter. Getting goods to market is also
simple: The traffickers come to them, driving their flashy trucks into the
remote village outposts and buying directly from the farmers.

Farmers and officials say the trade falls under the control of the Sinaloa
cartel, the most sophisticated and organized of Mexico's drug gangs. The group
is led by Joaquín Guzmán Loera, better known as El Chapo, arguably the world's
most notorious kingpin, who tunneled his way to freedom last month from Mexico's
most secure prison.

His return to the drug game is seen as a good thing in the mountains of
Guerrero.

''He will bring more money to the area,'' Mr. García said. ''He will make things
easier.''

As it stands, there is nothing easy about cultivating opium poppies in this
unforgiving stretch of the country, stationed above the clouds at more than
10,000 feet. Perhaps the most tangible sign of the government's presence in
Calvario is the lengths to which farmers must go to hide their opium
cultivation.

Getting to Mr. García's plot, which he used to cultivate himself but now leases,
involved an hourlong, four-wheel drive obstacle course along chewed roads,
followed by a nearly two-hour hike over hidden trails scratched into the remote
folds of the Sierra Madre del Sur.

There, a mosaic of color blankets a vast hillside: emerald stalks dappled with
purple, white and pink flowers. The hiss of an automatic sprinkler pierces the
air, as water is spewed up and down the sheer incline. Dried, blackened tree
stumps convey the land's recent clearing to make way for the field.

The steep grade and loamy earth make standing upright difficult, and on occasion
adults tumble down the hillside and are injured, villagers say. That is where
the children come in: Their slightness is an advantage come harvest time.

The children do not seem to mind. Several said opium was like any other crop
they might be told to farm for their parents. Only it pays better.

''There aren't a lot of opportunities to earn money,'' said Arturo Guerrero, 13,
seated with his two cousins early one morning this month. ''We can't help
support our families if we don't work.''

The need to work is paramount -- it is why both Arturo and his cousin Agustín,
17, dropped out of school this year. To attend high school, students from
Calvario must live in the nearby town of Mazatlán because there is no daily
transportation. The expense, combined with their lost wages, proved too much for
their parents. The boys decided to quit school and return home to farm.

''We couldn't go and come back from the fields, and then also make it to school
anymore,'' Agustín said.

The boys speak of the decision in a matter-of-fact way, without a trace of
self-pity. They have dreams, of course. If they had their choice of careers,
they would join the army, they said, again using the brutal calculus of poverty.

''Any other profession would require time, preparation and money,'' Angelica
said. Being a soldier is ''the easiest, shortest way to make money and help out
my family.''

But the aspiration is also a matter of exposure. They know soldiers. The Mexican
Army turns up once a year in Calvario to conduct eradication campaigns, which
helps explain why the villagers opt to grow their poppy crops in such remote
areas.

While seemingly stationed on opposite sides of a heated divide, the villagers
and the soldiers respect one another. The soldiers do not hassle them, villagers
say, even if they suspect them of growing opium. The farmers, in turn, share
their water with the teams of men, who camp on the outskirts of the village.

It was in this context that the children first encountered the soldiers. For a
moment, the young boys in the village sounded their age when they described how,
beyond a good salary, the idea of flying in helicopters and planes and carting
around heavy weapons sounded like fun.

But they quickly jettisoned such frivolous talk.

''If I had the chance to keep studying, I would have liked to have been a
soldier,'' Arturo said. ''But that's all behind me now.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/americas/mexican-opium-production-rises-
to-meet-heroin-demand-in-us.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Poppies flourish in Mexican fields like this one in Guerrero
State, tended by young workers. (A1)
Angelica Guerrero Ortega, 15, above left, with her brother in Calvario, is
taking advantage of the opportunity to harvest opium.
 Opium is extracted from a poppy pod in Guerrero. Opium production in Mexico
rose by an estimated 50 percent last year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RODRIGO CRUZ FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEROIN (91%); OPIUM (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME
(89%); CARTELS (89%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS
(77%); CHILDREN (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (73%); FARM
LABOR (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); MARIJUANA
(71%); BALLET (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%);
ANALGESICS (69%); CANNABIS (67%); DECRIMINALIZATION (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG
POLICY (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Torpor Overtakes the Mets in a Second Straight Loss at Home

BYLINE: By ZACH SCHONBRUN; Tim Rohan contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; RED SOX 3, METS 1; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 759 words


After a rollicking trip in homer-happy parks like Baltimore, Colorado and
Philadelphia, the Mets were as confident as they had been in years when they
returned to Citi Field on Friday. But so far, in two games back home, their
offense has crash-landed with a pronounced thud.

On Saturday, the Mets were stifled by Boston's Joe Kelly, 3-1, failing to
produce anything in seven opportunities with runners in scoring position, twice
with a runner on third base in the first two innings. After the Mets mashed an
astounding 23 home runs in nine road games, Citi Field has been considerably
less forgiving.

Manager Terry Collins said he detected another issue at play.

''Today, we looked a little tired,'' Collins said. ''We've been dragging a
little bit. We're just lucky we've got enough guys that we can give some of
these guys a blow.''

A sellout crowd, following up another big attendance Friday night, could not
lift the Mets from their torpor. Collins blamed consecutive extra-inning games
on Thursday and Friday, coupled with the fact that the team did not arrive home
after Thursday's game until after 3 a.m. He is juggling the lineup, trying to
find opportunities to rest his players, but the formula has been unsuccessful so
far in this homestand.

''I don't think our approach has changed at all,'' Collins said. ''I think we're
a little tired. You're watching some of the swings and saying, 'Boy, we look out
of gas.' ''

After a 10-inning loss the night before, the Mets and their fans had high
expectations on Saturday, with Jacob deGrom taking the mound against a team that
had never faced him. Early on, deGrom looked dominant, holding the Red Sox
hitless through four innings. But his performance unspooled in the sixth.

Kelly, who lost five of his first seven decisions with the Red Sox before being
demoted to Class AAA in June, mixed speeds and pitches effectively enough to
keep the Mets off-balance for seven and a third innings with just one run
allowed.

The Mets grounded out 12 times.

''I was pretty sure we were going to lose again, even though we were on a
seven-game winning streak,'' infielder Daniel Murphy said. ''I thought that was
probably going to happen.''

The Red Sox struck first, as deGrom, with his pitch count nearing 100, appeared
to tire in the sixth. After a leadoff single by Mookie Betts, a wild pitch moved
him to second, and he scored on a double into the gap in right-center field by
Pablo Sandoval.

After walking Travis Shaw, deGrom got the ground ball he wanted to get out of
the inning with a double play. But the speedy Brock Holt beat out the throw to
first, and Sandoval scored, pushing Boston's lead to 2-0. Holt hit the grounder
to Murphy, who was playing first and probably could have thrown Sandoval out at
home if he had tried.

''I kind of got in between,'' Murphy said. ''That's the easiest way to describe
it.''

DeGrom finished the inning at 109 pitches and was relieved by Hansel Robles in
the seventh. DeGrom recorded 10 strikeouts, and allowed four hits and two walks.

''I felt good today, especially early on,'' he said. ''I just struggled a bit in
the sixth inning.''

The Mets were in desperate need of some distance from their starting pitcher. It
is not only the hitters who feel fatigued; the bullpen has been overtaxed as
well. In fact, with several relievers unavailable Saturday, the Mets put Bartolo
Colon in the bullpen as an emergency measure. He wound up pitching in the ninth,
the first time he has pitched in relief since 2011 with the Yankees.

Some help is apparently on its way. After the game, the Mets were completing a
deal with the Arizona Diamondbacks for reliever Addison Reed, according to a
person familiar with the discussions. The move is pending a medical review.
Reed, a right-hander, has a 4.20 E.R.A. in 38 games this season. He was sent
down to the minors in June and has returned with a 1.65 E.R.A. in 13 games
since.

The Red Sox extended their lead to 3-0 in the seventh when Betts homered off
Robles. Juan Uribe put the Mets on the board in the seventh with a double to
drive Kelly Johnson in from first. But the offense went down in order in the
ninth.

''We're going to be fine,'' Collins said. ''We've hit a blip, and we've got to
pick it up.''

INSIDE PITCH

Third baseman David Wright received a day off after playing the previous two
nights, and Terry Collins said that Wright was dealing with shoulder stiffness.
But Collins waved off concerns that the problem had any relation to the back
injury that sidelined Wright for three months.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/jacob-degroms-strong-start-spu
tters-and-the-mets-bats-falter.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mookie Betts of the Red Sox was safe at first Saturday after the
Mets' Daniel Murphy missed an errant throw by Wilmer Flores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KATHY KMONICEK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (90%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mets Find Lineup Solutions in a Single, Mysterious Chart

BYLINE: By TIM ROHAN

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 839 words


Before every series, Mets Manager Terry Collins receives a three-ring binder
full of scouting reports, charts and numbers. Collins combs through the
information, wearing his glasses, highlighting things as he goes, making notes
in pencil. He uses the binder to help fill out his lineup each day, a task that
has become much more complex lately.

Since the Mets traded for Yoenis Cespedes, Kelly Johnson and Juan Uribe, their
offense has looked a bit crowded -- but in a good way. Collins has 11 viable
outfielders and infielders to play in seven spots. He has the luxury of
essentially using two lineups, one for right-handed pitchers and one for
lefties, and of resting his veterans to keep everyone fresh. It's like solving a
math equation, how he tries to maximize the Mets' offensive output daily.

One page in the binder attempts to simplify the process.

Around July, the Mets' analytics team started providing Collins with a new
chart, one that simply gave each Mets hitter a score for how he might perform
against each of the opposing pitchers. This chart came to be called the Matrix,
internally, and Collins became so pleased with it that he sang its praises
during a news conference this month.

''It's another tool,'' Collins said. ''It helps.''

Collins has been subdued discussing it recently, because he had been instructed
not to reveal too much. Others teams run similar programs, with their own
variations and twists, and the Mets preferred to keep theirs a secret. When
asked about the Matrix last week, General Manager Sandy Alderson frowned and
shook his head and offered little comment.

The general idea behind the Matrix, though, is simple enough. It groups pitchers
based on their repertory, velocity and other factors, compares how the Mets'
hitters have performed against that type of pitcher, and runs the data through
an internally developed algorithm that places emphasis on the basic tenets of
Alderson's offensive philosophy: getting on base and hitting for power. The
result is a single score for how a hitter may fare.

''And as the amount of data we get increases and the sophistication of our
system increases, we're able to just fold in more and more information,'' said
John Ricco, the Mets' assistant general manager.

The Matrix is especially useful in regard to the Mets' younger players --
Michael Conforto, Juan Lagares, Wilmer Flores and Ruben Tejada -- who may not
have faced every pitcher the Mets are playing, but have quite likely faced a
pitcher with comparable stuff.

Collins takes other sources into account, of course, and adds a human element to
the process. He has daily conversations with Kevin Long, the hitting coach,
about how players are swinging. The binder is full of useful tidbits, defensive
positioning charts and batting splits.

Collins may decide to play one player over another depending on which Mets
starter is pitching that day, and the type of defender the Mets need behind him.
If Jon Niese, a ground-ball pitcher, were starting, Collins would prefer to play
his best infield defenders.

Or say, for example, that Collins wanted to give Daniel Murphy a day off to rest
his legs. Murphy's statistics show that over his career, he has batted more than
40 points better during day games than night games, and so Collins would sit him
for a night game.

Bob Geren, the Mets' bench coach, is also a steward of sabermetrics, and he
keeps his own binder near him during games, to refer to whenever the Mets are
considering making a defensive substitution or using a pinch-hitter late in
games. With all the depth the Mets added at the trade deadline, they rarely lack
options.

Once Johnson and Uribe arrived, on July 25, Collins held a team meeting and
announced that playing time would be decided by merit. The Elias Sports Bureau
found that after that day, Collins used 27 different lineups over the next 30
games, not counting how the starting pitcher changes each day. In that span, the
Mets averaged 6.3 runs a game, set a franchise record for home runs in a single
game and surged past the Washington Nationals in the National League East.

Collins keeps the players in the dark about how he writes the lineup,
specifically. They haven't heard of the Matrix. ''It's just a movie with Keanu
Reeves,'' Murphy said.

But everyone seems to have bought into the system, perhaps because some of the
Mets' highest-paid players -- Curtis Granderson, David Wright and Michael
Cuddyer -- set an example by accepting lesser roles for the sake of the team.
Wright is expected to get regular days off as he makes his comeback from spinal
stenosis. Given the Mets' depth, Granderson may get more days off against
left-handed pitchers. And Cuddyer has been essentially relegated to a platoon
role, playing only against left-handed pitchers.

Come September, too, when the rosters expand and Lucas Duda is expected to
return, the clubhouse will get only more crowded, and playing time will be even
harder to earn.

''When you win,'' Lagares said, smiling, ''it's fun.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/mets-find-lineup-solutions-in-
a-single-mysterious-chart.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Manager Terry Collins says of the Matrix, a chart that gives
each Mets hitter a score for how he might do against a certain type of pitcher,
''It's another tool.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK SEMANSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (89%); MIDDLE MANAGEMENT (73%);
COACHES & TRAINERS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Residential Sales Around the Region

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1491 words


Upper East Side $326,000

305 East 72nd Street, Charing Cross House

0

1

0

2 weeks

450-sq.-ft. postwar studio co-op; 24-hr. doormen, concierge, foyer, galley
kitchen; elevator, marble lobby, laundry and exercise rooms; maintenance $737,
57% tax deductible; listed at $309,000 (multiple bids). Brokers: Citi Habitats;
Douglas Elliman.

East Midtown $615,000

251 East 51st Street

1

1

0

7 weeks

800-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; 24-hr. doormen, foyer, dining area, renovated
kitchen, parquet floors, 3 closets, east exposure; laundry room and common roof
deck; maintenance $1,212, 74% tax deductible; listed at $629,000. Broker:
Corcoran Group.

Harlem $900,000*

2098 Frederick Douglass Blvd. (113th St.)

2

1

0

2 weeks

935-sq.-ft. postwar condo; 24-hr. doormen, dining area, open kitchen w/white
cabinets and stainless-steel appliances, h/w floors; common charge $754; taxes
$60 (abated); listed at $795,000 (multiple bids). Brokers: Corcoran Group; Brown
Harris Stevens.

Upper West Side $1.3 million

176 West 87th Street

2

1

0

4 weeks

1,300-sq.-ft. prewar co-op; 24-hr. doormen, kitchen window, high ceilings;
laundry room and playroom in building, roof deck; maintenance $2,560, 40% tax
deductible; listed at $1.25 million (multiple bids). Brokers: Klara Madlin;
Milstein Properties.

Four Boroughs

Fordham Manor $380,000

317 East 196th Street, Bronx

6

3

0

2 weeks

100-year-old 3-story wood colonial; front porch, dining room, eat-in kitchen,
high ceilings, h/w floors, guest studio and bath on third floor, attic, full
basement, private drive, 0.08-acre lot; taxes $2,458; listed at $399,000.
Broker: Charles Rutenberg.

New Dorp $635,000

561 Clawson Street, Staten Island

4

2

1

17 weeks

40-year-old brick 2-family; primary unit: 3 bedrooms, 1.5 baths, eat-in kitchen;
other unit: 1 bedroom, 1 bath; h/w floors, full basement, roof replaced,
48-by-100-ft. lot; taxes $5,631; listed at $679,000. Broker: Coldwell Banker De
Simone.

Beechhurst $818,000

10-17 Totten Street, Queens

3

2

1

14 weeks

60-year-old colonial; brick and vinyl siding, granite entry hall,
commercial-grade appliances, h/w floors, balcony off master bedroom, family room
in basement, 1-car garage, 39-by-79-ft. lot; taxes $6,793; listed at $839,888.
Broker: Energized Realty Group.

Fort Greene $1.4 million

21 South Portland Avenue, Brooklyn

2

1

0

1 week

1,100-sq.-ft. prewar co-op; dining room, eat-in kitchen, 14-ft. ceilings
w/exposed beams, 2 fireplaces, herringbone floors, original detail; maintenance
$820, 36% tax deductible; listed at $1.395 million (multiple bids). Broker:
Corcoran Group.

Long Island

Massapequa $382,500

1 Barrett Street

4

2

0

7 weeks

64-year-old expanded Cape Cod; new vinyl siding, renovated baths and eat-in
kitchen, bow window, h/w floors, new windows, deck, private drive, 69-by-100-ft.
lot; taxes $10,827; listed at $389,000. Brokers: Century 21 AA; Coldwell Banker
Residential.

Westbury $556,000

156 Maple Avenue

4

2

2

40 weeks

78-year-old colonial; vinyl siding, family room w/fireplace, heated enclosed
porch, office, h/w floors, original woodwork, wet bar in basement, detached
2-car garage, 145-by-135-ft. lot; taxes $20,596; listed at $559,000. Broker:
Daniel Gale Sotheby's.

Plainview $855,000

6 Sydney Street

4

2

1

5 weeks

6-year-old colonial; vinyl siding, front porch, entry hall, kitchen island,
family room w/fireplace, 9-ft. ceilings, basement, 1-car garage, 65-by-115-ft.
lot; taxes $21,977; listed at $869,000. Brokers: Shawn Elliott Luxury Homes;
Charles Rutenberg.

Sands Point $4.25 million

17 Longwood Road

5

7

1

51 weeks

8-year-old brick colonial; family room, study, 2 fireplaces, terrace off master
bedroom, guest wing, home theater in basement, loggia, heated pool, 4-car
garage, 2-acre lot; taxes $55,306; listed at $4,888,888. Brokers: Laffey Fine
Homes; Douglas Elliman.

Westchester

Cortlandt Manor $390,000

14 Rocky Ridge

3

3

0

23 weeks

35-year-old raised ranch; vinyl siding, updated kitchen, sunroom, family room,
windows and doors replaced, c/a, 2-car garage, 1.3-acre lot; taxes $13,826;
listed at $399,900. Brokers: Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices River Towns;
William Raveis.

Hawthorne $528,500

224 Manhattan Avenue

3

1

1

19 weeks

45-year-old brick and cedar center-hall colonial; bay window, h/w floors,
walk-in closet in master bedroom, family room in basement, attached 1-car
garage, 0.11-acre lot; taxes $13,979; listed at $549,000. Broker: Better Homes
and Gardens Rand.

Rye $860,000

5 Haven Avenue

4

3

0

20 weeks

63-year-old fieldstone and wood Cape Cod renovated in 1971; foyer, fireplace,
sunroom w/stone wall and skylight, h/w floors, c/a, 1-car garage, 0.18-acre lot;
taxes $14,677; listed at $895,000. Brokers: Coldwell Banker Residential;
Houlihan Lawrence.

Purchase $8.5 million

32 Lincoln Lane

6

9

3

75 weeks

8-year old stone and wood colonial; library, family room, 5 fireplaces, bowling
alley, screening room, pool, pool house, 4-car garage, 5.44-acre lot; taxes
$163,544; listed at $9.995 million. Brokers: Julia B. Fee Sotheby's; Coldwell
Banker Residential.

Hudson Valley

Mahopac $360,000

527 Orchard Court, Putnam

4

2

0

23 weeks

81-year-old Cape Cod; vinyl siding, kitchen island, dining area, stone
fireplace, office, whirlpool tub, h/w floors, 1-car garage, 1.1-acre lot; taxes
$10,558; listed at $359,000 (multiple bids). Brokers: Houlihan Lawrence; Keller
Williams Realty Partners.

Monroe $434,200

68 Southfield Falls, Orange

4

2

1

52 weeks

New colonial; wood and vinyl siding, 2-story entry, fireplace, master bedroom
suite w/walk-in closet and whirlpool bath, full basement, 2-car garage,
0.57-acre lot; estimated taxes $16,000; listed at $499,900. Broker: Better Homes
and Gardens Rand.

Beacon $850,000

15 Sojourner Lane, Dutchess

4

2

1

25 weeks

135-year-old wood Victorian; wraparound front porch, wood stove in kitchen,
fireplace, study, high ceilings, h/w floors, original detail, walk-up attic,
full basement, 4.66-acre lot; taxes $8,178; listed at $950,000. Broker: Houlihan
Lawrence.

Piermont $1.35 million

151 Tweed Boulevard, Rockland

3

2

1

10 weeks

7-year-old wood contemporary; river view, 2-story living room w/wall of windows,
balcony, radiant heat, c/a, 2-car garage, 0.32-acre lot; taxes $24,037; listed
at $1.35 million. Brokers: Wright Brothers; Coldwell Banker Residential.

New Jersey

Harrington Park $306,000

25 South Avenue

1

1

0

32 weeks

45-year-old ranch; vinyl siding, eat-in kitchen, h/w floors, full unfinished
basement, c/a, generator, detached 2-car garage, 50-by-125-ft. lot on dead-end
street; taxes $8,245; listed at $399,000. Broker: Coldwell Banker Residential.

West Orange $495,000

81 Ridgeway Avenue

4

3

0

9 weeks

85-year-old stone and wood colonial; family room, sunroom, vaulted ceilings, 3
fireplaces, whirlpool tub, basement, 1-car garage, 103-by-177-ft. lot; taxes
$20,184; listed at $529,000. Broker: Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices New Jersey
Properties.

Little Silver $840,000

139 Rumson Place

6

3

0

2 weeks

57-year-old wood midcentury modern; foyer, dining area, fireplace, h/w floors,
renovated baths, c/a, partly finished basement, heated saltwater pool, 3-car
garage, 110-by-243-ft. lot; taxes $13,558; listed at $874,900. Broker: Coldwell
Banker Residential.

Englewood $3.6 million

130 Walnut Street

7

6

2

13 weeks

63-year-old colonial; vinyl siding, foyer, family and billiards rooms, home
theater, guest suite, playroom in partly finished basement, pool, cabana, tennis
court, 1.5-acre lot; taxes $80,704; listed at $4.3 million. Broker: Prominent
Properties Sotheby's.

Connecticut

New Milford $330,000

42 Mine Hill Road

4

3

0

35 weeks

28-year-old wood colonial; family room w/vaulted ceiling, sunroom, balcony off
master bedroom, garage, 1.6-acre lot; taxes $6,711; listed at $349,900. Brokers:
Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices New England Properties; Coldwell Banker
Residential.

Norwalk $510,000

9 Merrill Road

3

1

1

6 weeks

95-year-old wood colonial; renovated kitchen w/maple cabinets, granite counters
and stainless-steel appliances, fireplace, family room, attic, deck, garage,
0.19-acre lot; taxes $7,405; listed at $529,000. Brokers: William Pitt
Sotheby's; Halstead Property.

Wilton $845,000

15 Little Brook Road

4

3

1

10 weeks

56-year-old wood colonial; fireplace, family room w/vaulted ceiling, sunroom,
master bedroom suite, basement w/wet bar, deck, 2-car garage, 2.11-acre lot;
taxes $12,743; listed at $845,000. Brokers: Realty Seven; William Raveis.

Greenwich $5,036,624

22 Frost Road

6

8

2

34 weeks

86-year-old stone English manor on Spahn Pond; dock, entry hall, breakfast and
family rooms, library, 4 fireplaces, solarium, balcony, pool, attached 4-car
garage, 2.53-acre lot; taxes $38,780; listed at $5.795 million. Broker: Houlihan
Lawrence.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%);
CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FLOORING (70%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC
(55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS
& MANAGERS (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Danielle Martino, David Forster

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 128 words


Danielle Maria Martino, the daughter of Gina L. Lemon of Brooklyn and Gregory M.
Martino of Harrison, N.Y., was married Saturday to David Charles Forster, a son
of Patricia M. Forster of Dongan Hills, Staten Island, and Paul S. Forster of
Bay Terrace, Staten Island. Douglas J. Martino, of the North Castle, N.Y., town
court and the bride's uncle, officiated at the Westchester Country Club in Rye.

Mrs. Forster, 28, is a risk management analyst in the finance division at
Goldman Sachs. She graduated from the University of Rhode Island. She is also
the stepdaughter of Deborah V. Martino.

Mr. Forster, 32, is a bond trader at Oppenheimer & Company in New York. He
graduated from Wake Forest and is a chartered financial analyst.

The couple met at a Halloween party.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/danielle-martino-david-forste
r.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KRISTINE FOLEY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (68%); HALLOWEEN (50%)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); WESTCHESTER
COUNTRY CLUB INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RHODE ISLAND (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%);
NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%);
NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES
ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282
INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (57%); SIC7997
MEMBERSHIP SPORTS & RECREATION CLUBS (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and JILL
P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 112 words


Highlands Carriage House

$629,000

NEW JERSEY 72 Navesink Avenue

A 1904 carriage house converted into a three-bedroom two-bath house with a sun
porch, first- and second-floor decks, and a landscaped yard with an outdoor
shower and a hot tub. Thomas McCormack, Resources Real Estate (732) 212-0440;
resourcesrealestate.com

TAXES $10,970

PROS The interior has a beach-house feel with blue and white beadboard walls and
ceilings; the many windows offer excellent views of Sandy Hook Bay, the Atlantic
Ocean, Lower Manhattan and Staten Island. The beach is within walking distance.

CONS The driveway is very steep, and off a busy road, making getting in and out
difficult.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SOLOMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and JILL
P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 88 words


Upper East Side Co-op

$425,000

MANHATTAN 227 East 87th Street, #4A

A duplex studio with a Murphy bed and a shared roof deck in a walk-up. Matthew
Cohen, CORE (201) 410-5496; corenyc.com

MAINTENANCE $750 a month

PROS A brick wall and a decorative fireplace add charm to this sunny unit. The
kitchen is nicely renovated.  A staircase leads to a closet as well as a roof
deck that is shared with an adjacent unit.

CONS The apartment is on the fourth floor. The blue sink, toilet and tiles in
the bathroom could use an update.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDA JAQUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and JILL
P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 75 words


Lenox Hill Co-op

$2,150,000

MANHATTAN 125 East 63rd Street, #8B

A three-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath with a fireplace and a washer/dryer in a
full-service doorman building. Jackie Schneider, Stribling & Associates (646)
269-7809; stribling.com

MAINTENANCE $4,807 a month

PROS The kitchen has a Viking stove and space for a dining table. The roomy
master bedroom has an en-suite bath and a wall of closets.

CONS Maintenance is on the high side.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDA JAQUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nina Mani, Brett Hansmeier

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 167 words


Dr. Nandini Mani and Brett Lee Hansmeier were married Saturday at the Mass
Audubon Habitat Education Center and Wildlife Sanctuary in Belmont, Mass. The
bride's brother, Rohan H. Mani, a Universal Life minister, officiated.

On Friday, Lakshman Sastry, the head priest at the Hindu Temple of
Massachusetts, led a Hindu ceremony at the Hyatt Regency in Cambridge, Mass.

Dr. Mani, 37, is keeping her name. She is a pediatrician and internist with the
Hospital Medicine Group, a division of the Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston. She graduated from Northwestern and has a medical degree from Penn
State.

The bride, who is known as Nina, is a daughter of Shamla H. Mani and Dr. K.N.
Mani of Basking Ridge, N.J.

Mr. Hansmeier, 45, is an electrical engineer at Casa Systems, a company that
sells broadband communications equipment in Andover, Mass. He graduated from the
University of Illinois.

He is a son of Carolyn T. Bruhn-Hansmeier of Loves Park, Ill., and Gary L.
Hansmeier of Fort Myers, Fla.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/nina-mani-brett-hansmeier.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); WILDLIFE
CONSERVATION (88%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (88%); WILDLIFE (88%); HINDUS &
HINDUISM (87%); HOSPITALS (87%); BROADBAND (51%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (58%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (50%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 59 words


An article on July 26 about Christianity in the Middle East described
incorrectly a finding in a Pew study about religious hostilities. The study
reported that Christians face religious persecution in more countries than any
other religious group; it did not say that more Christians face religious
persecution than at anytime since their early history.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RELIGIOUS
DISCRIMINATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (87%)

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Sculpt With a Chain Saw

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; TIP; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 340 words


First, get the right safety equipment. Before you rev up your saw's two-stroke
engine, invest in padded, cut-resistant chaps. A chain saw ''can be a dangerous
tool,'' says Takao Hayashi of Yamaguchi, Japan, winner of this year's U.S. Open
Chainsaw Sculpture Championship in Eau Claire, Wis.

Second, know your wood. At home, Hayashi's favorite is a red-colored cedar known
in Japanese as ''sugi.'' In the United States, sculptors typically carve
softwoods like pine and redwood; Germans generally use oak. Hayashi finds a log
that suits his preconceived imagery; other carvers do the opposite, letting the
particularities of the wood dictate its form. Like any folk art, chainsaw
sculpture has its visual tropes -- upright bears, big-eyed owls. Don't feel
obliged to hew to those traditions. ''You should carve what you want to carve,''
says Hayashi, who prefers African animals with unusually shaped bodies like
hippopota­muses. Still, clichés can be practical. Hackneyed creatures tend to be
''round and similar to the shape of logs,'' Hayashi says, making them easier for
beginners.

You will need at least three chain saws. To block out basic shapes, deploy a
powerful logging saw with a three-foot-long blade. Detail work requires smaller
instruments. With a good teacher, you can make a simple bear in a day, but it
will take years to produce original work. Hayashi started as a 28-year-old
carpenter, and in his first year he made 300 sculptures. ''I would wake up in
the middle of the night thinking about designs,'' says Hayashi, now 43.

Among carvers, Hayashi is known as a purist who forgoes chisels, burners and
sanders for the raw power of a mechanical saw. Even as he strains against its
weight, horsepower and noise, the saw lets him shape a tree's hard, fibrous
tissue into something else entirely, like a dragon, or a squirrel holding a
mailbox. ''You can see the shape really fast, and I like that,'' Hayashi says.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/how-to-sculpt-with-a-chain-saw.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RADIO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (76%)

CITY: EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (72%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The 8.16.15 Issue

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE THREAD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 824 words


Readers respond to our 8.16.2015 issue.

RE: LIBERLAND

Gideon Lewis-­Kraus visited Liberland, an at-­least-­theoretically-­independent
nation that was established in an unclaimed jurisdiction between Croatia and
Serbia by Vit Jedlicka, a 31-year-old politician from the Czech Republic.

Jedlicka is the newest part of a checkered but fascinating history of what is
known by some in the libertarian world as ''libertarian Zionism'': trying to
create a small polity self-­selected to be occupied by libertarians and run on
libertarian principles. ... However impossible Liberland is, it represents a
feeling growing faster and stronger than the states of the world want to
recognize.

Of course, Liberland has the power of the Internet, by which everyone
communicates with everyone else everywhere about everything at something
approaching costlessness. ... Placing any more weight on the attention that
Jedlicka has received, other than that it strikes people as amusingly bold and
absurd, might be a mistake. Still, it does feel, to someone following these
ideas for decades, that they seem inchoately more cool and admirable than insane
and stupid to lots of people nowadays.

Brian Doherty, in a post for Reason.com

It is not uncommon for private individuals to find a neglected parcel of land
and declare it to be independent, usually with themselves as ''head of state.''
Surrounding and adjoining states usually ignore these upstarts as long as they
cause no inconvenience. But you can be sure that if they find some interest in
asserting their sovereignty, the ''principality'' will cease to exist in short
order. Therefore, they are of no importance except as an oddity that might be
included in local tourist brochures. They are hardly worth an extensive article
in a newspaper of record.

Edmund Peay, Brunswick, Me., posted on nytimes.com

RE: BAIL

Nick Pinto wrote about the injustice of the bail system; every year, thousands
of innocent people are sent to jail only because they can't afford to post bail,
putting them at risk of losing their jobs, custody of their children -- even
their lives. The article tells the story of Tyrone Tomlin, a 53-year-old
construction worker who, minutes after buying a soda with a straw, was arrested
on charges of carrying drug paraphernalia -- the straw.

Yes, the bail system is broken, but the bigger concern is everything that
happens before bail: Why is a police officer arresting someone for having a
straw? Why is a prosecutor prosecuting such a worthless case? Why is a
prosecutor allowed to ask for bail in such a situation?

The bail system needs to be fixed, but so does every step of the process that
leads to a person being in front of a judge for having a straw in the first
place.

Ben Miller, Washington

As public defenders at the Legal Aid Society in New York City, we were happy to
see Nick Pinto's excellent article on the sorry state of our cash-bail system.
While he describes Band-Aid solutions like a bail fund and pretrial supervision,
he neglects to point out that New York's statute already provides for
alternative forms of bail that would enable many more people to be released
without onerous monetary restrictions. In 1970, the Legislature enacted a
statute that allows judges to set bail in nine different forms, including a
release on an unsecured appearance bond, which allows the accused to be released
on an obligation to pay should the accused fail to return.

Currently, judges still regularly set only two forms of bail, cash or an
insurance-­company bond. The time is now to utilize the system as it was
intended. If an alternative form of bail is used, more people will have their
freedom at no cost to the city, and the inequities of the bail system will be
diminished significantly.

Seymour W. James, Justine Luongo and Joshua Norkin, New York

When I was a public defender in Philadelphia in the late 1980s, one of my
greatest frustrations was representing clients for bail hearings at the Police
Department. The expectation was that after this brief discipline of being stuck
in jail because of an inability to post bail, my clients would successfully
overcome the bail hurdle by their attorneys' simply making another argument. As
this article so aptly shows, that is not the case. Bail is a critical step in a
process that says ''innocent until proven guilty'' but kind of doesn't mean it.

Joanne Campbell, Cherry Hill, N.J.

Correction

An article on July 26 about Christianity in the Middle East described
incorrectly a finding in a Pew study about religious hostilities. The study
reported that Christians face religious persecution in more countries than any
other religious group; it did not say that more Christians face religious
persecution than at any time since their early history.

Send your thoughts to magazine@nytimes.com

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/the-8-16-15-issue.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHNNY MILLER) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY TOM GAULD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (85%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BAIL (67%); PUBLIC
DEFENDERS (66%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (61%);
DISMISSALS (61%); LEGAL AID (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(59%); INTERNET & WWW (54%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: CROATIA (92%); SERBIA (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill Bryson Fears Humans More Than Bears

BYLINE: Interview by ANA MARIE COX.

Interview has been condensed and edited.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; TALK; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 660 words


Park rangers along the Appalachian Trail are preparing for a huge influx of
visitors, thanks to the release of ''A Walk in the Woods,'' the movie based on
your book about trying to hike the whole thing. What type of person do you think
would see that movie and think, I want to do that, too? Well, that's a good
question, because I've had at least as many people tell me that my book has put
them off the idea of walking the Appalachian Trail.

Apparently, less-experienced backpackers tend to draw more bears to the trail,
because they leave more litter. Most bears between Georgia and Maine are timid
around humans, partly because a lot of them know that humans often carry rifles.
But in certain places, where the bears don't have any history of being shot at,
they tend to be much more assertive and come up and, in a sense, mug people and
very occasionally kill them.

Were those near encounters with black bears on the Appalachian Trail the only
time your life has been in danger while on assignment as a travel writer? The
scariest thing I've ever had happen was when I was mugged at knifepoint in
Johannesburg. Somebody put a knife right up to my nose.

I suppose humans are generally more dangerous to other humans than bears are.
Including on the Appalachian Trail, it must be said.

One critic of the book said that you seemed happiest when you ''unexpectedly
stumbled across processed food or paved roads.'' And you've said that as a
travel writer, you absolutely don't want to get malaria, be uncomfortable, sleep
on anything hard or worry that an alligator is going to come up and take your
leg off. Yes. Isn't that a fairly rational position to take?

Absolutely. I was going to say that my idea of adventure travel is Airbnb. But
to go back to that point, the person who wrote that was slightly wrong, because
strangely -- and I'm sure anybody who's walked the trail would confirm this --
you discover that you don't want processed food and junk. What you actually want
is vegetables.

You've become an accidental ambassador of science. You said that your book ''A
Short History of Nearly Everything'' was supposed to be a one-off exercise from
someone who always failed at science in school. Did you actually fail science?
No, but I got pretty close. I always scraped by, but I never came away with any
kind of an appreciation for the wonders of science. In that sense, I failed
spectacularly.

You've also said that creationism is less magical than science, less
awe-­inspiring. How so? If you're a spiritual person, I think the scientific
explanation for the universe, and how it got the way it is -- the fact that it's
so vast and so ancient, and in all of this amazing void of space, as far as we
know, the only living things are us on this little planet -- actually makes God
seem more majestic.

You live in Britain now, but you're from Des Moines. And as we speak,
presidential candidates are there, eating fried things on sticks. What does our
presidential-election pageantry look like from the chronological and physical
distance you have now? When I was growing up, the caucuses weren't the huge
phenomenon they have become. The only famous person who came when I was a kid
was President Johnson. It was such a big deal that all the schools let out, and
every kid in Des Moines went to it.

What do you think of the fact that your home state has such an important role in
our presidential politics? I'm obviously biased here, but I've always thought
that the Midwest is the most sane and sensible part of the country. And the
closer you get to Iowa, the more it becomes that way. I really do sincerely feel
that there's a bedrock decency there. It's the state's finest quality.

Does your Iowa accent return when you go back home? No. I wish it would. If I
try to make an Iowa accent, I just end up sounding like Deputy Dawg.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/bill-bryson-fears-humans-more-than-be
ars.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN SLATER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HIKING (79%); WALKING & JOGGING
(78%); BACKPACKING (77%); WRITERS (77%); MAMMALS (75%); SHOOTINGS (74%);
LITERARY CRITICISM (72%); CREATIONISM (60%); RELIGION (60%)

STATE: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Advantage

BYLINE: By BEN AUSTEN.

Ben Austen is working on a book about Chicago's Cabrini-Green public-housing
complex. He last wrote for the magazine about Detroit's economic recovery.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE U.S. OPEN ISSUE; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 4619 words


When the Hyde Park Racquet Club opened in the late 1970s, amid the country's
short-lived tennis boom, there wasn't another indoor facility in Chicago for 10
miles. The club occupied a section of 47th Street, near the lake, that long
served as the boundary between the aging mansions of Kenwood and the greater
South Side beyond. Across the street was a record shop that sold house music and
a drive-through liquor store that peddled home brew in gallon jugs with the
promise ''Won't go flat!'' In a hot-dog stand on the block, two teenagers once
pummeled me with their fists while three of my tennis buddies could only watch,
as we were useless at hitting anything other than yellow balls. The original
owners of the club soon bailed. The many racquetball courts they had built went
mostly unused. The sauna wasn't properly ventilated and rotted the locker room.
A fitness chain eventually rented the space, filling half the tennis courts with
weight benches and treadmills; the other five courts remained playable but were
invariably coated in tennis ball fuzz, many of their overhead lights askew and
glaring or altogether dark.

Despite its shortcomings, the racket club, as it was called, also served as a
home for South Side tennis. Mark Bey, now a nationally acclaimed junior coach
and an assistant coach to the doubles team of Mike and Bob Bryan, entered the
building for the first time as a child in 1979. He saw a black coach training a
black teenager, both of them highly skilled; it was like an invitation to the
game, he told me. During group lessons, he would savor the fact that just about
every court included an African-American ranked in the juniors. A couple of
those players won the Illinois high-school state championship; most of them
played in college, and many are now teaching pros themselves. Over the years a
few have gone even further -- Katrina Adams, Donald Young Jr. and Taylor
Townsend reached the pro tour. And yet Hyde Park could still feel like a remote
outpost in the vast empire of competitive tennis. The local junior tournaments
were nearly all in the suburbs; the sought-after groups were hosted by clubs on
the North Side or west and north of the city. Few of the destinations were
accessible by bus or train. Mark Bey ended up coaching on the wealthy North
Shore, where six indoor tennis clubs sit within a few miles of one another. I
spoke recently to Dave Muir, an esteemed tennis instructor in Chicago for the
last 60 years and one of the first managers of the Hyde Park Racquet Club. Like
me, Muir is a white guy from the South Side, and he told me about a poem he once
carved into his wood racket that made it clear we shared the same combination of
loathing and longing for the courts we presumed to be greener on the other side:
''Seeded, unranked./When I'm reborn,/I hope it's up north.''

The South Side of Chicago is just one of many urban areas where United States
tennis might now find an opportunity for growth. Serena Williams
notwithstanding, tennis in this country still struggles to overcome the
perception, not at all inaccurate, that it is largely a sport for white people
with lots of money. While there were 34 million tennis players nationwide in
1974, there are only 18 million today, and the Tennis Industry Association
estimates that just 3.5 million are black or Hispanic. Venus and Serena Williams
first learned the game on public courts in Compton, Calif.; James Blake began
playing at the Harlem Junior Tennis & Education Program; Zina Garrison and Lori
McNeil were trained at Houston's MacGregor Park; and Arthur Ashe was discovered
on segregated courts in Richmond, Va. But as opposed to in every other major
sport, these instances of tennis players rising up from city parks to the
highest levels of the professional ranks are remarkably rare. The financial,
logistical and even cultural barriers have been difficult to surmount.

The better athletes in America tend to play team sports they can easily access.
It's not hard to imagine Roger Federer or Gaël Monfils, men with extraordinary
athleticism, having developed into cornerbacks or wide receivers if they had
grown up in the United States. In other countries, by contrast, tennis attracts
the most promising young talent. Novak Djokovic isn't merely the greatest tennis
player in Serbia; he is also arguably the country's greatest athlete. That's
part of the reason there are currently just 12 American men ranked among the
tennis world's top 200. Donald Young, who grew up playing on public courts on
the South Side, as well as at the club on 47th Street, is the only
African-American. Diversifying all levels of tennis is one way to increase the
pool of potential players.

''The best thing we can do is make sure kids are exposed to rackets and courts
at a very early age and from all walks of life,'' Serena Williams told me by
email. ''You have to change the culture first, and the rest will follow.''
Children learning to hit groundstrokes in schools and public parks is a start,
but those showing promise need somewhere close by and affordable where they can
congregate and continue playing year-round -- even through a Midwestern winter.
Recently, the United States Tennis Association started a Hispanic outreach
initiative, Tenis para Todos, and it has begun investing more heavily in its
extensive grass-roots National Junior Tennis & Learning programs, where youth in
underserved communities are first inculcated into the sport. ''We've got to make
tennis much more accessible to nontraditional tennis families,'' Martin
Blackman, the U.S.T.A.'s new head of player development and a former touring
pro, told me. ''We have to identify and deepen the base of young athletes that
are coming into the sport.''

A couple of miles from the old Hyde Park Racquet Club, on the former site of the
Robert Taylor Homes, once the country's largest public housing complex, a new
tennis center is now being built with the hope of accomplishing just that aim in
Chicago. The $12 million XS Tennis Village will feature 12 indoor courts, 15
outdoor ones (including four of red clay), classrooms, a track and a
state-of-the-art fitness center. Kamau Murray, who currently operates the
existing tennis club on 47th Street, is behind this ambitious project. Murray
says he believes the facility could change the lives of thousands of young
people in this largely poor and black South Side neighborhood, using a
combination of physical and academic instruction to teach not just tennis but
also discipline and resolve. With a facility of this scale, he also envisions
high-level training and tournaments, helping an increasing number of local
athletes develop into top-ranked juniors and college prospects in their own
community. As a critical mass of serious players forms on the South Side, other
young people from the surrounding area might be enticed to join in as well.
''For this sport to survive in America, you've got to have a more diverse
population of kids,'' Murray said. ''Finding kids in the community is the future
of U.S. tennis.''

When I returned to the old Hyde Park club one morning this summer, a tennis camp
with 80 children was underway. The weight benches had been cleared, the courts
restored and resurfaced and the commercial corridor across 47th Street
redeveloped. Murray, a lithe and loose-limbed 34-year-old who also grew up
playing there, was leading a dozen of his best players through an array of
drills. Two African-American teenagers, twin sisters, slugged balls back and
forth to each other, scampering inside the baseline and around a cone between
every shot, alternating with two other girls, the rally extending for a
preposterous number of strokes -- 20, then 30, then 60.

''Any idiot can hit a tennis ball,'' Murray yelled. ''Good players can hit it on
the run.'' He told them the key was to whack the same quality groundstroke
whether they were sprinting or tensing up during a 10-shot rally in a
tiebreaker. ''Play every out ball,'' he ordered younger students on a second
court. ''Learn how to cover an extra 1,000 square feet. That's Serena. Run it
down! Make them try to hit it through you!''

Murray was 7 when he picked up tennis. It was a fluke: His parents needed to
deposit him somewhere for the summer, and they heard about an all-day camp that
cost only $12 for 8 weeks, hosted at the public courts near their South Side
home. The son of a judge and a public-school assistant principal, Murray went on
to become the de facto coach of his high-school team, recruiting promising
players from local middle schools, and then attended Florida A&M on a tennis
scholarship. The university later covered the expense of his M.B.A. while he
served as an assistant coach. A onetime pharmaceutical marketing manager, he
took over the tennis operation on 47th Street in 2008, renaming it XS Tennis --
''A play on 'excess,' greater than normal,'' he said. But every year since, the
owners of the building have seemed on the brink of shutting it down. Murray
began to sell the idea of a new facility on the South Side, one big enough to
transform what tennis looked like in Chicago.

The city financed $2.9 million of the XS Tennis Village. ''It's going to be
literally a college-scholarship production facility,'' Mayor Rahm Emanuel told
me. Emanuel donated $5,000 of his own money and wheedled far larger sums out of
his deep-pocketed friends. But, he said, he mostly got out of Murray's way when
they were making the pitch: ''I'm his wingman,'' the mayor declared. In their
pitches, Murray would marshal market studies and data sets, highlighting the
work XS was already doing in 10 local public schools. He talked about the
center's capacity to help lift up the long-beleaguered neighborhood. It would
spur private investment and add to a cultural corridor being developed by the
University of Chicago just beyond the school's traditional Hyde Park boundaries.
Taylor Townsend, a teenage pro whom Murray coached on the tour for a couple of
years, helped with fund-raising; having grown up playing on the South Side, she
appeared as the fulfillment of the tennis village's dream.

There were doubters, of course. Some in the Chicago tennis community don't think
anyone can fill 27 courts in a neighborhood still dominated by vacant lots,
especially when tennis courts elsewhere remain empty and too many outsiders
still think of the South Side as a place to avoid. Murray needs not only to
raise an additional $3 million to complete the center; he will also have to keep
the lights on and pay his staff while offering tennis at a price
''nontraditional'' tennis families can afford. At the groundbreaking for the
facility in June, Bobby Rush, the 12-term congressman from the South Side, told
the crowd of 200 that he initially opposed the project because he didn't like
the idea of government land designated for public housing going to tennis
players. But he said he was won over by Murray's passion and his vision.
Alluding to Venus and Serena, Rush proclaimed, ''From Compton, California, to
Chicago, Illinois, it's happening, and it's happening right now. We are going to
dominate tennis.''

Two blocks from the old Hyde Park Racquet Club, at the edge of a city park,
Tyrone Mason was feeding backhands to a trio of youngsters, commanding them to
brush up on their swings to drive the ball with topspin. Weather permitting,
Mason, 61, has presided at these same public courts most days for the past 25
years. Murray took some of his first lessons from Mason, and so did I. The
courts represent much of what I think is great about tennis in the city. It's
not that they're especially ideal in terms of playability. The overhanging
branches of a tree extend over a baseline, interfering with service tosses on
one side. There is often a clamor from Little League games, high-school-football
practices or families that set up grills and sound systems on weekends. A bench
nearby is a preferred roost of weed-smoking teenagers. And when Mason isn't
around, dog walkers use the enclosed courts as a run. But all the distractions
make the tennis feel as if it's part of the wider community, especially when
contrasted with the snobby seclusion of the country club. Little kids press
their faces against the fence, while adults stop to admire the play. Mason waves
to drivers blowing their horns in greeting, and he speaks to most passers-by,
whether he knows them or not. It's the Jane Jacobs urban ideal of the ''sidewalk
ballet'' by way of the tennis court. Parents often see Mason's pupils hitting
deep topspin shots and inquire about lessons for their own children.

Like tennis everywhere, black tennis in Chicago began as something a bit more
genteel. In 1912, a group of prominent African-Americans in the city, many of
them doctors and lawyers and businessmen, formed the Chicago Prairie Tennis
Club. Blacks were barred from country clubs and, until the late 1940s, from
official competition in what was then called the United States Lawn Tennis
Association. Park-district leagues in Chicago weren't fully integrated until the
1960s. ''It wasn't the epitome of success to play tennis, but we wanted to be
included in American life,'' Ron Mitchell, who has helped operate the Prairie
club for the last 25 years, told me. In its early years, the group fielded
challenges from black tennis associations on the South Side and elsewhere in the
Midwest. It took part in an annual tri-city matchup among similar organizations
in Cleveland and Detroit. The best players from Chicago went on to compete in
contests held by the American Tennis Association, formed in 1916 as the
corresponding national black tennis league. The first black player to claim a
United States national title wasn't Althea Gibson, who won the U.S. Open in
1957, but Lorraine Williams, a 15-year-old Chicagoan affiliated with Prairie
Tennis who took first place in a junior division four years earlier.

Mason was already out of high school when he touched a racket for the first
time, in 1972. This was just four years after the beginning of the modern pro
tennis era, as players without amateur status were finally allowed to compete in
major tournaments. On the South Side and the North Side and all over Chicago, it
suddenly seemed as if everyone were playing. The coach I trained with the
longest, a smooth-swinging lefty named Waverly Hill, didn't hit a tennis ball
until this same time, when he was in college. It was a revelation, he told me
recently: ''I knew instantly it was the sport I should have played all along.''
Hill was soon spending most of his days at Tuley Park on 90th Street, competing
against Mason and other fervid converts. Many of them got their professional
starts teaching park-district tennis.

By the '80s, thanks to these adults who had fallen hard for the game, there was
a large contingent of first-generation black junior tennis players. They formed
a close community that proved strong enough to eclipse many of the divides of
economics and access. Their parents car-pooled to tournaments and group lessons.
One of the mothers' friends ran a tournament at a local park; someone's father
hosted a camp elsewhere. ''It was such a great experience because it was such a
family-oriented environment,'' Katrina Adams, the star of that cohort, told me
this summer.

Like Murray, Adams first joined a tennis group in the park by her home the
summer she turned 7. She continued to play that winter on a gym floor in a
public-park field house. Eventually she was handed off to Chris Scott, the South
Side's top coach, who was a Harlem Globetrotter for a decade before turning to
tennis in his 30s. By the time Adams was a teenager and winning trophies, many
of the adults from the local tennis scene were chipping in to help pay for her
travel and her training. She earned a scholarship to Northwestern, went pro
after her sophomore year and won 20 doubles titles over her career. She is now
the first black president of the U.S.T.A.

There are 128 city parks in Chicago like the one where Tyrone Mason teaches.
Although the courts at these sites are nowhere near as crowded as they were,
say, 30 years ago, it's still common all over the South Side to see a lone
teaching pro staked out with a basket of balls, maybe a folding chair courtside.
That's not the robust tennis community that helped raise a Katrina Adams in
Chicago, but so far it has sustained tennis on the South Side. The XS Tennis
Village, a major year-round facility, might be able to do more. ''With
grass-roots programs you're starting from nothing,'' Adams told me. ''Taylor
Townsend started from nothing. I started from nothing. You don't know who you'll
get until you get them into your sport and can develop them.''

In the living room of their Hyde Park condominium, Ray and Onjada Richardson
explained that they were practitioners of what they called the ''Richard
Williams strategy'' of tennis parenting. Two years before Venus was born,
Williams chanced upon a women's tennis final on TV and saw a $40,000 check being
presented to the winner. Although he had never swung a racket, let alone
theorized about open-stance groundstrokes, Williams decided right then that he
would have two daughters and, with a certainty and a level of detail that could
only be seen as delusional if not for what came to pass, that he would raise
them both to be tennis champions. Ray Richardson's similar epiphany occurred in
1997, while watching a 17-year-old Venus Williams play in her first U.S. Open
final. Neither Ray nor Onjada were tennis players, and it would be another three
years until the birth of their first child, but they believed that Venus and
Serena, as black stars of the game, would serve as the perfect role models for
their children-to-be. ''It's the looking-glass self: See yourself, see the
possibilities,'' Onjada explained to me. (It's what Serena Williams wrote me she
is most proud of: that she and her sister ''expanded the definition of who a
tennis player can be. And the sport grew with us.'') The Richardsons' first
child was a boy -- Hugh -- and Ray was determined not to let his plans be
hijacked by football or basketball. ''That's just the experience of young
African-American males,'' he said. He introduced tennis early: At 2, Hugh was
taken to hit against a wall, and at 4 he began lessons with Mason in the park by
their home. Tyra, three years younger, eventually followed her brother onto the
court.

Hugh is now a wiry, 6-foot-3 15-year-old with size 15 shoes, his sinewy arms and
legs a gyroscope of synchronized motion. At Dunbar Park, a few blocks from the
stadium where the White Sox play, I watched him effortlessly crack practice
serves -- 110, 120 miles per hour, as fast as some pros -- the balls a blur
ricocheting off the back fence. Later, Hugh suddenly decided for no reason to
spend 15 minutes of his practice switching his two-handed backhand to a
one-hander, a shot he'd rarely hit before. And yet his form was perfect, his
timing impeccable, 15 out of 15 shots exploding off his strings and falling a
foot inside the far baseline.

Tyra, 12, is only slightly more than two racket-lengths tall, but already her
volleys are crisp line drives or precisely carved angles. On her looping
forehands, her racket is a whip of light, delivered with a grunt of intensity.
''Her potential is unlimited, especially if she grows,'' said her coach, Richy
Gray, a former local junior who played in prize-money tournaments. In one drill,
Gray sent her side to side, chasing balls, Tyra stretching as she swung on the
full gallop. On every single shot, she somehow managed to anchor a back foot to
transfer her weight and send force forward. Her strokes ending above her
opposite ear, she finished these running shots like a gymnast nailing a
dismount, with no extra steps or loss of balance, immediately able to send
herself back in the opposite direction to track the next ball. Waverly Hill told
me that when Tyra was 4, she hit 26 balls in a row with him. At 8, she finished
third at a national tournament. She was preparing for the Girls' 12s national
hard courts, a six-day event in suburban Atlanta; the previous week there was a
conference call with national junior development coaches from the U.S.T.A.

As Tyra's national ranking has risen, so, too, have the family's concerns that
geography will put her at an unfair disadvantage. Ray and Onjada work full-time,
commuting to their jobs, and most of the group lessons with juniors of Tyra's
caliber are held in the suburbs, easily an hour's drive each way in traffic. The
better a player, the farther the tournaments (regionals, sectionals, nationals)
and the greater the costs. While the Richardsons were excited that the new XS
tennis center would basically be in their backyard, they knew it would open too
late to help them navigate the critical next year or two in their children's
development. Should they send the children away to a tennis academy, which can
run $50,000 a year? They were by no means wealthy, and they estimated that
tennis was already costing them $25,000 a year per child, which actually seems
to be on the low end of the junior-tennis enterprise.

The U.S.T.A. once thought it could remedy the unequal distribution of tennis
resources, and in that way develop the absolute best players, by inviting all
the top juniors in the country to a national training center in Florida, free of
charge. Taylor Townsend went to the association's training facility, as did Evan
King, another African-American player from Chicago on the pro circuit. But the
junior rankings are themselves hugely influenced by economics, favoring players
who early on can afford the finest instruction and training and later who can
get to all the far-flung tournaments that are necessary for both experience and
ranking points.

The association has since discovered that its national training-center model can
do more harm than good, because it requires that adolescents be removed from
their families and friends and long-term coaches. ''Everything that we've
learned not just from tennis but from other sports really shows that the great
athletes in any sport develop close to home,'' Blackman of U.S.T.A. player
development told me. ''They aren't shipped off to a centralized academy or
federation when they're 13 or 14.'' Although the association is currently
building a new 102-court training center near Orlando, Blackman said the
national tennis body is also trying to fund players who stay home, offering
grants for training, private lessons and travel. It has put together regional
commissions of coaches that recommend potential champions who otherwise might
not make it on to the U.S.T.A.'s radar. The more diverse the coaches in these
commissions, Blackman said, the more diverse the players the association hears
about.

On a Wednesday in July, I went with Kamau Murray and 75 of his campers to a pro
tournament in suburban Winnetka, on Chicago's North Shore. The event was a
Challenger, the circuit's second tier, with $50,000 in prize money split among
all the participants, from the $7,200 allotted the singles winner to the $520
handed out to half the entrants for losing in the first round. The South Siders
hoped to see 17-year-old Frances Tiafoe, the son of immigrants from Sierra
Leone, who was the country's highest-ranked junior before going pro this spring.
From a very early age, Tiafoe had trained at Maryland's Junior Tennis
Championship Center, one of the country's pre-eminent tennis academies, because
his father was a maintenance worker there. But Tiafoe lost the night before,
6-3, 6-1, in the first round. ''I want to be great -- hopefully, I can be,'' he
told me later in the day. ''I want to inspire other kids of color to play
tennis.''

The XS campers instead watched a second-round match between a Texan named
Mitchell Krueger and a burly Ukrainian named Illya Marchenko. Each man stood six
feet behind the baseline, sending rolling forehands deep to the corners and
backhand lasers down the line. Their styles were nearly identical, the margin
between their tremendous shot-making abilities slight. The campers, some as
young as 5, looked on in bewilderment at a game that, at least at this point,
bore little resemblance to anything they had experienced. The 21-year-old
Krueger, already three years on the tour, was able to hit a few more shots on
the run than his opponent and pulled out a three-set win. By then the XS kids
were gone, drawn away by the news that Murray was passing out tickets for the
concession stands.

I joined them outside the stadium court, and Murray began to tell me how
important it was for his students to see black professional players. In the same
way that they followed the N.B.A.'s Stephen Curry or Derrick Rose, they needed
to know that it was possible to start the tennis process and end up on the pro
tour. Yet even players possessing all the athleticism and skill and desire, he
said, still could be derailed. He offered up the experience of Taylor Townsend.
At 15, while at the U.S.T.A. academy, Townsend won the 2012 Australian Open
junior singles title. But later that year, the U.S.T.A. said it wouldn't pay for
her travel to the U.S. Open or to any other tournaments until she lost weight.
Never thin, Townsend was then the top-ranked junior in the world. Murray helped
raise money for Townsend to play the Open. Townsend's family reached out to Zina
Garrison, who struggled with bulimia when she played on the tour in the '80s and
'90s. Murray and Garrison went on to jointly coach her for two years, though she
is now back with her childhood coach, the father of Donald Young Jr. As
blundering as the association's treatment of Townsend was, it seemed especially
insensitive in light of all the talk of body type that swirls around black women
in the game. ''One of the things that I don't want to happen is to find a
champion on the South Side, tell them about all these great things the sport can
do for them and they get to the point where the tennis community at large beats
them down,'' Murray told me.

As we drove the hour back from the suburban tennis facility grand enough to host
a professional tournament, Murray said he hoped the entire tennis community on
the South Side would get behind the new XS village. ''We have a chance to create
unprecedented access to tennis for minority kids in Chicago, and that access can
lead to college scholarships,'' he explained. And he didn't see it merely as a
Chicago endeavor, but a national collaborative one. The $26 million Cary Leeds
Center for Tennis and Learning, with its free community tennis programs, opened
in the Bronx earlier this year. Zina Garrison runs a tennis program in Houston.
The next day, 40 children from the Washington Tennis and Education Foundation,
in D.C., would be in town, and Murray was taking them and his own campers on a
college tour of Northwestern University. If the current inner-city tennis
programs succeeded, he mused, then more like them might also get started in
Cleveland, Detroit and Los Angeles. ''And then maybe I get to build another one
on the West Side of Chicago too,'' he said, half-jokingly.

''The new tennis facility is really just the beginning,'' Murray said when we
were back at the 47th Street club. ''It's really, like, Chapter 2.'' He nodded
at the 35-year-old hangar of a building where we had spent so much of our
childhoods. ''This is Chapter 1, and the tennis village is Chapter 2.''

''How many chapters will you write?'' I asked.

He didn't pause before answering. ''Ten,'' he said.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/who-gets-to-play-tennis.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (MM44
MM45)
Kamau Murray, 34, runs the XS Tennis facility in Chicago and is behind the
project to build its new, state-of-the-art $12 million facility. (MM47)
 Tyra Richardson started tennis young, with the Williams sisters as role models.
Now 12, she is a nationally ranked junior, one of the South Side's rising stars.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLYN DRAKE/MAGNUM, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COACHES &
TRAINERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); FITNESS CENTERS
(78%); RACQUETBALL (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); MUSIC
STORES (71%); BEER  WINE & LIQUOR STORES (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%);
TOURNAMENTS (68%)

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (58%); SERENA WILLIAMS (58%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Zip-a-Dee-Doo-#&$!

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; SEARCH RESULTS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 420 words


The creators of Zoobe intended to make their program cute, clean and simple: a
mobile app that turns voice recordings into 3-D animated videos, starring
woodland creatures with gigantic heads. It was introduced in 2013 as a playful
alternative to text messaging and quickly became a hit on its home turf in
Germany. Users record brief messages on their smartphones, and anthropomorphic
beings recite them back, in a video that can be shared with friends or posted
online. The craze soon spread to neighboring countries, especially
social-media-obsessed Russia, spawning some 170 million short videos that
delivered short messages from the app's cast of bears, rabbits and foxes.

While they talk, Zoobe characters dance and undulate in a disturbingly sensual
manner, making the videos exploitable in a way that the Internet tends to
quickly discover. Earlier this year, when English-language Zoobe videos began
surfacing on American Twitter, YouTube and Tumblr feeds, the Zoobe menagerie
adopted a saltier vocabulary.

Kylee Henke, a 26-year-old artist whose Zoobe videos were among the first to go
viral in the United States, said that she started experimenting with Zoobe over
the Fourth of July weekend, trading jokes with her family outside Seattle. The
more she played with the app, the more she realized that obscene messages made
for great videos. ''The juxtaposition between the character's appearance and the
horrible things I have it say makes it 10 times funnier,'' she says. Over time,
Henke explains, ''the language got more foul, because as it turns out, it's
hysterical to watch cute, fuzzy little characters yelling obscenities or spewing
dark humor.'' As Zoobe spread, it became clear that Americans were determined to
put a twisted spin on the app, forcing the doe-eyed creatures to do their dirty
work: ranting about celebrities, cursing out frenemies and complaining about
daily indignities.

Lenard F. Krawinkel, the founder and chief executive of the company, claims to
embrace this bizarre deviation. ''I love it!'' he says, adding, ''I always hoped
this would happen.'' Krawinkel sounds genuine when he says he wants the service
to be used for personal expression, regardless of how that expression evolves
over time. That may be true, or it may just be that he recognizes the sheer
impossibility of controlling a creation once it's out in the wild -- even one as
soft and fluffy as Zoobe.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/zip-a-dee-doo.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SALLY THURER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); FILM (90%); ANIMATION (90%); MOBILE
APPLICATIONS (90%); MAMMALS (88%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%);
VIRAL VIDEOS (78%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (78%); ANIMALS (77%); WILDLIFE (75%);
INTERNET & WWW (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); SMARTPHONES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mirror. Memory

BYLINE: By EAVAN BOLAND.

Natasha Trethewey served as the poet laureate of the United States from 2012 to
2014. Eavan Boland, who is Irish and the director of the creative-writing
program at Stanford University, is the author of more than 10 collections of
poetry, including, most recently, ''A Woman Without a Country,'' published by
W.W. Norton last year.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; POEM; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 104 words


Cultural memory often involves a good measure of willed forgetting, an
overlooking of some parts of experience in favor of a dominant narrative. In
this poem, the precise imagery of faces reflected in a kettle -- ''misted and
revealed'' -- hints at how these subjects are at once obscured and plainly seen.
Here, the memory of people who are often left out of history is set against the
imagery of the painting, connected by the single long sentence from which the
poem is made.

Poem selected by Natasha Trethewey.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/mirror-memory.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: The man and woman in a formal portrait before me in the
gallery, born to the high summer of Flemish pride -- pride in their eyes,
rendered with animal glues, in the elaborate loops of their collars, even pride
in the painter who only yesterday applied gesso and tacked the canvas to make
them ready for a future of perpetual intrusion -- are not the ones I want to
remember: winter provincials listening for infant cries, boiling a kettle in the
predawn, their faces misted and revealed in the steel of it, their moment
passing, passing
 nothing but sleep in their eyes. (DRAWING BY R.O. BLECHMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The V.C.s of B.C.

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON.

Adam Davidson is a co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money'' and a contributing
editor at the magazine.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON MONEY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1669 words


One morning, just before dawn, an old man named Assur-idi loaded up two black
donkeys. Their burden was 147 pounds of tin, along with 30 textiles, known as
kutanum, that were of such rare value that a single garment cost as much as a
slave. Assur-idi had spent his life's savings on the items, because he knew that
if he could convey them over the Taurus Mountains to Kanesh, 600 miles away, he
could sell them for twice what he paid.

At the city gate, Assur-idi ran into a younger acquaintance, Sharrum-Adad, who
said he was heading on the same journey. He offered to take the older man's
donkeys with him and ship the profits back. The two struck a hurried agreement
and wrote it up, though they forgot to record some details. Later, Sharrum-­Adad
claimed he never knew how many textiles he had been given. Assur-idi spent the
subsequent weeks sending increasingly panicked letters to his sons in Kanesh,
demanding they track down Sharrum-Adad and claim his profits.

These letters survive as part of a stunning, nearly miraculous window into
ancient economics. In general, we know few details about economic life before
roughly 1000 A.D. But during one 30-year period -- between 1890 and 1860 B.C. --
for one community in the town of Kanesh, we know a great deal. Through a series
of incredibly unlikely events, archaeologists have uncovered the comprehensive
written archive of a few hundred traders who left their hometown Assur, in what
is now Iraq, to set up importing businesses in Kanesh, which sat roughly at the
center of present-day Turkey and functioned as the hub of a massive global
trading system that stretched from Central Asia to Europe. Kanesh's traders sent
letters back and forth with their business partners, carefully written on clay
tablets and stored at home in special vaults. Tens of thousands of these records
remain. One economist recently told me that he would love to have as much candid
information about businesses today as we have about the dealings -- and in
particular, about the trading practices -- of this 4,000-year-old community.

Trade is central to every key economic issue we face. Whether the subject is
inequality, financial instability or the future of work, it all comes down to a
discussion of trade: trade of manufactured goods with China, trade of bonds with
Europe, trade over the Internet or enabled by mobile apps. For decades,
economists have sought to understand how trade works. Can we shape trade to
achieve different outcomes, like a resurgence of manufacturing or a lessening of
inequality? Or does trade operate according to fairly fixed rules, making it
resistant to conscious planning?

Economists, creating models of trade, have faced a challenge, because their data
have derived exclusively from the modern world. Are their models universal or
merely reflections of our time? It's a crucial question, because many in our
country would like to change our trading system to protect American jobs and to
improve working conditions here and abroad. The archives of Kanesh have proved
to be the greatest single source of information about trade from an entirely
premodern milieu.

In a beautifully detailed new book -- ''Ancient Kanesh,'' written by a scholar
of the archive, Mogens Trolle Larsen, to be published by Cambridge University
Press later this year -- we meet dozens of the traders of Kanesh and their
relatives back home in Assur. Larsen has been able to construct family trees,
detailing how siblings and cousins, parents and spouses, traded with one another
and often worked against one another. We meet struggling businessmen, like
Assur-idi, and brilliant entrepreneurs, like Shalim-Assur, who built a wealthy
dynasty that lasted generations. In 2003, while covering the war in Iraq, I
traveled to many ancient archaeological sites; the huge burial mounds, the
carvings celebrating kings as relatives to the gods, all gave the impression of
a despotic land in which a tiny handful of aristocrats and priests enjoyed
dictatorial control. But the Kanesh documents show that at least some citizens
had enormous power over their own livelihoods, achieving wealth and power
through their own entrepreneurial endeavors.

The details of daily life are amazing, but another scholar, Gojko Barjamovic, of
Harvard, realized that the archive also offered insight into something
potentially more compelling. Many of the texts enumerate specific business
details: the price of goods purchased and sold, the interest rate on debt, the
costs of transporting goods and the various taxes in the many city-states that
the donkey caravans passed on the long journey from Assur to Kanesh. Like most
people who have studied Kanesh, Barjamovic is an Assyriologist, an expert in
ancient languages and culture. Earlier this year, he joined some economists, as
well as some other Assyriologists and archaeologists, on a team that analyzed
Kanesh's financial statistics. The picture that emerged of economic life is
staggeringly advanced. The traders of Kanesh used financial tools that were
remarkably similar to checks, bonds and joint-stock companies. They had
something like venture-capital firms that created diversified portfolios of
risky trades. And they even had structured financial products: People would buy
outstanding debt, sell it to others and use it as collateral to finance new
businesses. The 30 years for which we have records appear to have been a time of
remarkable financial innovation.

It's impossible not to see parallels with our own recent past. Over the 30 years
covered by the archive, we see an economy built on trade in actual goods --
silver, tin, textiles -- transform into an economy built on financial
speculation, fueling a bubble that then pops. After the financial collapse,
there is a period of incessant lawsuits, as a central government in Assur
desperately tries to come up with new regulations and ways of holding wrongdoers
accountable (though there never seems to be agreement on who the wrongdoers are,
exactly). The entire trading system enters a deep recession lasting more than a
decade. The traders eventually adopt simpler, more stringent rules, and trade
grows again.

In 1962 A.D., as our modern era of globalization was just beginning, the
economist Jan Tinbergen -- who would later share the first Nobel in economic
science -- noted something curious: Trade within and between countries followed
a mathematical formula. He called it the Gravity Model, sort of an E=mc^2 for
global business. It comes with an imposing formula: Fij = G(Mi x Mj)/Dij. Which,
simplified, means that trade between two markets will equal the size of the two
markets multiplied together and then divided by their distance. (The model gets
its name from its mathematical similarity to the equation in physics that
describes gravitational pull.)

Since Tinbergen first published his finding, others have tested it on thousands
of trade routes around the modern world, as well as on trade records going back
a couple of centuries. In extreme cases (for example, trade between warring
countries or during periods of sanction), the formula can fail to predict the
volume of trade, but over all the model works extremely well. It's a striking
finding, suggesting that, for all the debate about trade agreements and currency
rates, import duties and World Trade Organization disputes, trade tends to
follow its own rules.

Economists were drawn to the Kanesh archive because it offered an unprecedented
chance to see how well the Gravity Model applied in an economy entirely unlike
our own. This was trade conducted via donkey, through a land of independent
city-states whose legal and cultural systems were totally dissimilar to any we
know. But still, the model held up: Ali Hortacsu, a University of Chicago
economist on the Kanesh team, says that the trade figures between Assur and
Kanesh matched the formula almost perfectly. ''It was a very nice surprise,'' he
told me.

The Gravity Model may seem like bad news for people who want the economy to be
fairer. I have spoken to countless activists and concerned friends who see
global trade as a choice, something a specific set of politicians and businesses
decided to impose on the rest of us, through all those confusing acronymic trade
deals: GATT, Nafta and (probably, soon) the T.P.P. To me, though, the model
suggests that these deals have less impact than either their boosters or their
detractors imagine. There is a natural tendency for different regions to trade
at fairly predictable volumes. However much politicians might want to change
those outcomes, they have only crude tools at their disposal: They can stop
trade through blockades, slow it through tariffs or try to jump-start it with
trade agreements. What they can't do, at least not reliably, is shape it with
precision to achieve their preferred outcomes.

But despite trade's intractability, we still have a lot of room to address the
impact of trade on our economy. Trade with China and other nations may be all
but inevitable, but growing wealth inequality and disproportionate pain
(blue-collar workers losing their jobs, investors reaping a fortune) are not.
There is much we can do within our borders to address the unequal impact of
global trade. We can educate children for more competitive careers, train
displaced workers for new industries or even directly compensate those who fail
to benefit from global trade.

That, in fact, is what the people of Assur did, 4,000 years ago, as Barjamovic
pointed out to me. Trade brought enormous wealth to a dozen or so families. But
rather than hold all of it for themselves, the wealthy were made to redistribute
a high percentage of their earnings through taxes and religious foundations that
used the money for the public good. This way, the wealth created by trading with
Kanesh made nearly everybody -- at least every free citizen -- better off.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/the-vcs-of-bc.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ANDREW RAE) (MM22
 MM24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (90%); AGREEMENTS (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%);
ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (62%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (60%);
MOUNTAINS (56%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brock Lesnar

BYLINE: By SCOTT O'CONNOR.

Scott O'Connor is the author of the novels ''Half World'' and ''Untouchable.''
He is currently writing a TV drama set in the world of professional wrestling.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 907 words


A World Wrestling Entertainment production tends to be a ridiculous spectacle: a
brash, crass, gleefully obnoxious passion play where herculean men scream,
threaten and belittle at the tops of their lungs, then work through their
interpersonal issues in front of millions of viewers by pretending to pummel one
another senseless, all while wearing colorful spandex. It's hard to take
seriously -- that is, until Brock Lesnar enters the arena.

Even compared with other W.W.E. performers, Lesnar is a stark physical presence,
a brush-cut block of heavy muscle and stoic menace. He rarely shouts or
trash-talks; he barely speaks at all. Striding toward the ring in simple boxing
trunks, his silent focus is singular and absolute. The crowd, which usually
adopts the necessary level of knowing distance in engaging with their idols,
seems to sense a difference; they grow edgy, alert. Lesnar presents a sort of
rift in professional wrestling's operative epistemology, upending its
decades-old conventions and laying bare some of its unstated contradictions.

Professional wrestling occupies a unique place in American narrative art: It's a
''sport,'' but scripted; it's supposed to play like fact, but everybody knows
it's fiction. The W.W.E. loves to smudge these lines between script and reality.
Did Wrestler A's girlfriend cheat on him with Wrestler B? Let's write it into
the show! This whole combustible mix then plays out in real time, week after
week, with fans following the backstage politics as closely as the on-screen
story lines.

More than any other performer, Brock Lesnar personifies this tension between the
''real'' and the scripted. The son of South Dakota dairy farmers, Lesnar was a
dominant amateur wrestler, winning the N.C.A.A. Division 1 heavyweight
championship while at the University of Minnesota. After, he was recruited by
the W.W.E. and entered the world of ''worked'' matches -- pro wrestling's
distinctive blend of improvised athleticism and predetermined outcomes. But
despite a successful championship run, he was hungry to return to actual
competition. After five years in the business, Lesnar left pro wrestling and
eventually found his way to mixed martial arts. In his fourth bout, he took the
Ultimate Fighting Championship heavyweight title from Randy Couture. Soon he was
reportedly the highest-earning athlete in the sport.

Then, in 2012, Lesnar returned to the W.W.E.: a real, proven fighter back in the
world of the unreal fight. Lesnar announced (threatened?) that he had come back
to bring some ''legitimacy'' to the exercise, creating an electric uncertainty
among the fans in the arena: Where was he going with this? How far could he
stretch the already considerable suspension of disbelief wrestling requires of
its audience? But rather than cracking the whole enterprise apart, Lesnar has
become one of wrestling's biggest draws, a performer whose every appearance is a
must-see event.

Lesnar's entire persona is based around the implied threat that he might collide
the real with the scripted, demolishing the only constant in the pro wrestling
universe: that the violence is fake. While some wrestlers have abused that tacit
understanding between performer and audience, whiffing open-fisted punches,
leaving too much daylight in their headlocks, Lesnar exudes danger in the ring.
His jabs and hooks look for all the world as if they're landing, hard. His holds
and reversals have an Olympian fluidity. Of course, Lesnar would never actually
attempt to injure another performer. He's a skilled stage fighter, whose style
harks back to wrestling's carnival roots, when the matches were a con rather
than a show and verisimilitude was a business necessity. In this sense, Lesnar's
appeal lies in his skill not just as a fighter, but also as an actor -- in his
ability to hoodwink even the most jaded audience in sports.

At last year's WrestleMania, Lesnar faced the Undertaker, an unassailable
veteran who hadn't lost a match at the event in 21 appearances -- his unbeaten
streak was the centerpiece of the annual megashow. The question for fans was
never if he would win, but how. His matches had become a comforting ritual, a
chance to cheer on a living legend. But then he stood face to face with Lesnar,
who, 25 minutes later, pinned him in the center of the ring. In the stands,
grown men and women held their heads or covered their mouths in disbelief.
Images of the stunned fans' responses went viral. Online, people seemed to think
these rubes didn't understand they'd just seen a scripted event. Of course they
did, but that didn't make the match's finish any less shocking -- once again,
Lesnar had blown up wrestling's narrative rules.

Lesnar's performances give audiences that naïve but unusual pleasure of not
always knowing the difference between the real and the fake, replenishing their
capacity to be fooled, shocked, even -- yes -- conned. Like Houdini, he's a
magician who tells his audience there's nothing supernatural involved in what he
does, but still wraps his body in padlocked chains and throws himself into the
Charles River. No matter how much we know, or think we know, about a coming
show, when Lesnar appears on camera, he brings with him the most precious of
commodities in our spoiler-filled culture -- the spectacular possibility of real
surprise.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/letter-of-recommendation-brock-lesnar
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brock Lesnar is a real fighter who has become one of the biggest
draws in the world of the unreal fight. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW B. MYERS
 PROP STYLIST: RANDI BROOKMAN HARRIS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRESTLING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
SPORTS (89%); MARTIAL ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS
(78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS
(78%); BOXING (74%); DAIRY FARMING (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (51%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Countries Between Us

BYLINE: As told to CYNTHIA MARTENS.

Anamaría Pazmiño, 26, has worked as a curatorial and gallery assistant. She
spoke in French to Cynthia Martens.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 747 words



One day in early June, I was sitting in a school cafeteria in Brussels with a
number of women from my Dutch class. We were eating broodjes (sandwiches) and
drinking coffee from a Thermos dispenser. With Ramadan beginning on June 17, the
topic of fasting came up. Who was fasting? Who wasn't? We went around the table.
I was one of only three who weren't.

When I moved to Brussels from Paris this year to join my Italian husband, I
didn't think I'd have to learn Dutch. Although my native language is Spanish --
I'm from Bogotá, Colombia -- I'd been living in Paris for almost a decade, and I
thought I could get by with French. But I was wrong. Belgium is small, but it's
complicated. French is one of its official languages, yet if I spoke French in
my Flemish neighborhood, people often answered me in English. It felt a little
adversarial. Worse than that, I couldn't get jobs I was otherwise qualified for
because I couldn't speak Dutch. So I signed up for classes with the ministry of
education.

They put me in the class for new arrivals. In that class of 20, there were only
a few who shared a native language. There were people from parts of the Maghreb
and sub-Saharan Africa, a man from Portugal, a couple of Ukrainians, a Brazilian
-- I mean, it was an impressive mix. People of all backgrounds, and so we had to
go very slowly.

But the teacher -- a blond and blue-eyed Flemish woman who rode in from faraway
on a bicycle every morning -- was great. She spoke only in Dutch and made a lot
of hand gestures so we would understand what things meant. She always said
''prima!'' which means ''excellent,'' when we got something right. She taught us
that gloves are called ''hand shoes.'' She also spent a lot of time talking
about the waste-disposal system and recycling in Belgium, and that was very
helpful. It was clear the class was intended for people who needed some kind of
acculturation, if you will, because we learned these elements of civic duty,
little lessons about everyday life in Brussels.

After a couple of weeks, I struck up a friendship with a Somali woman who was
about my age and quite religious but with a fondness for T-shirts and jeans. She
was curious about me, and I was glad to find someone I could relate to. My
acquaintance with her paved the way for me to talk with some of the other women,
who were mostly African; they accepted me into conversations during breaks and
after class. Nearly all of them came from French-speaking countries, and many of
them wore the hijab. That surprised me at first, because when I studied at a
French university, my Muslim friends didn't wear religious attire in the
classroom.

It also happened that at least four of these women were pregnant. Which is why I
wondered out loud about something that day in the cafeteria: ''So, uh, you have
to fast even when you're pregnant?''

A woman from Guinea -- she wore brightly colored clothing and stylish, sparkly
veils -- said: ''Of course. It's a religious duty, not something you can just
decide to ignore.'' Others said you should fast as well, although one Moroccan
woman kept silent. But then a Catholic woman from Congo said: ''What? When
you're going to have a baby, you have to stay healthy and feed your child.''

The other Christian, who was from Rwanda, agreed. Someone else said it wasn't a
matter of choice, just doing what was right.

The women went back and forth. Everyone was very respectful, but they were
openly giving their opinions with a level of confidence that I didn't share. At
one point, I explained that in Colombia, most people were Catholic but that I
wasn't very religious myself. They all looked at me sort of dumbstruck and then
kept on talking.

At the time I was focused on why these women would do this. Later I found out
that I was pregnant, too, and when I started experiencing some of the symptoms,
I just thought of them and about how difficult fasting would have been.

Our teacher taught us that when you say what country you are from, and we worked
on this a lot, because we were from so many places, the ''uit'' in ''ik kom
uit'' (''I am from'') is pronounced like the French word oeil, with a ''T'' at
the end. A lot of us had been having trouble with it, but it's such an important
statement. My question now is exactly how my child -- half Italian, half
Colombian, born in Brussels -- will finish the phrase.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/the-countries-between-us.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MELINDA JOSIE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); WOMEN (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%);
RELIGION (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (60%)

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (78%)

COUNTRY: BELGIUM (96%); FRANCE (88%); SOMALIA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SUB
SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); COLOMBIA (78%); UKRAINE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Off the Air

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH.

Mark Leibovich is the magazine's chief national correspondent and the author of
''This Town'' and ''Citizens of the Green Room.''

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FEATURE; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 5240 words


''Bring me a plate of radishes.''

''Yes, Mr. King.''

''I don't eat radishes, except when I'm at the Palm. It's one of my rituals.
Rituals are important.''

We sat at Larry King's table at the Palm steakhouse in Washington, a city the
cable talk impresario has not lived in since 1997. Yet King, now 81, remained
central to the restaurant's scenery. Caricatures of him hung on the walls,
depicting various stages of his perpetual middle age. People walked by and said
hello and told him they always watched his show, even though King left CNN four
and a half years ago. ''It's the ageless Larry King,'' said one well-wisher,
shaking his hand. Every celebrity over 80 gets to be called ''ageless.''

When he is not interviewing anyone, just eating lunch, King tends to slump in
his chair. On TV, you experienced him mainly as sharp angles, arched shoulders
and pointed elbows, and a collection of features and accouterments (suspenders,
saucer glasses). King's once-black hair has now assumed, or been assumed with, a
coppery orange color. The beige of his unmade face lacks the glow that radiated
when King was at his peak and framed by the edges of a screen.

When you grow older, routines become important, King told me. Even to someone as
emphatically nonreligious as he is, they can lend a measure of sanctity: the
morning bagel quorum King leads with his old friends at the Original Brooklyn
Water Bagel Co. near his home in Beverly Hills; his daily hairstyling
appointment at the JosephMartin Salon (near the bagel place); his bowl of Honey
Nut Cheerios with blueberries; his pills, parceled out by dosage (Lipitor,
Plavix, fish oil, multivitamin tablets and human growth hormone). ''I like the
stability,'' King said. ''Don't give me a surprise birthday party.''

Like all old people, or so King claims, he likes to read the obituaries first
thing every morning. God's box scores. He can't turn away. People might learn
about someone who died at the age of 88, or 89, and say, ''Oh, he lived a long
life.'' But that's not how King views it. ''I think, That's only seven or eight
years off for me,'' he said. There were some 78s and 79s in the paper that
morning. He shook his head. Negative math is terrifying.

King is fixated on dying. Everyone is, to some degree, but not like him. Shawn
King, his seventh wife, told me that Larry talks so much about his demise that
he started to upset their teenage sons, and she had to tell him to knock it off.
''He kept saying, 'Listen, I'm not going to be around much longer, boys,' ''
Shawn said. '' 'Whatever you do, don't let your mother put me in a home.' ''
Recently, Larry and Shawn met with some insurance and lawyer types to go over
their family trust. They were talking about his will and who got what and the
tax ramifications. ''After about 20 minutes, I said, 'Wait a minute,' '' Larry
told me. ''I won't be here when this happens. I won't exist. Everything in that
conversation had nothing to do with me.''

King's father died of a heart attack when King was 9. That, he says, is what
probably initiated his own death obsession. ''I took that as my father
abandoning me,'' he said. ''I had a psychologist explain that to me once.'' Not
a psychologist King ever saw professionally, but a guest on his show -- his kind
of therapist.

Over the quarter-century that he hosted ''Larry King Live,'' King was always
asking his guests, ''What do you think happens when we die?'' I saw him ask that
of the ageless guitarist Carlos Santana. Santana said that upon expiration, he
expected to merely enter a different room and then receive a standing ovation
from the likes of John Coltrane and John Lee Hooker. ''So you believe they're
somewhere?'' King asked. Yes, Santana was certain. ''What makes you believe
that?'' King wondered. ''You can't prove it.'' Santana suggested that faith ''is
acceptance of things not seen.'' This is a story we'll be following.

Luminary deaths accounted for some of King's best-rated programs. He would host
remembrance panels. He spent five hours receiving mourners via phone on his
radio show on the night John Lennon was killed (''Milton Berle called in'').
''Who elected Larry King America's grief counselor?'' James Wolcott of Vanity
Fair asked in 2009, during a summer when King was convening nightly shiva on CNN
for Michael Jackson and Farrah Fawcett.

''At Richard Nixon's library, the day after he was taken to the hospital, if you
look at his calendar, it says 'Larry King Live,' '' King told me. ''He was going
to be on my show, but he died.'' The same thing happened with Bart Giamatti, the
commissioner of baseball, in 1989: ''He was supposed to come on my show a few
days after he had his heart attack.''

King had planned to have one of his all-time favorite guests, Mario Cuomo, speak
at his funeral. But then Cuomo went and abandoned him, too, last January, at
just 82. Maybe Bill Clinton would be willing to speak instead, King wondered. He
likes Clinton. ''I bet he'd do it.'' King flashed a satisfied smile, but then
his face suddenly went blank. He tends to do this, as if savoring an image (a
president at his funeral -- such a tribute!) and then being slapped back to his
default reality (''But I won't be there to see it!''). He lingers on the
unimaginable.

''I can't get my head around one minute being there and another minute absent,''
King said.

Larry King died in 2010. Not for real, but when CNN pulled the plug on King's
show after 25 years, it felt like a dress rehearsal for the real cancellation.

King was 77 when his run ended at the network. He told me he could see it
coming. Cable news had changed. It had become all about shouting, the
left-versus-right paradigm and ''good TV'' -- meaning spectacles. Fox News had
gone right, and MSNBC had lurched left, and somewhere in the shrinking American
middle was the once-dominant CNN, adrift in a loud new century. King's bosses
kept pushing him toward shorter segments, not the long-form interviews he always
did while hunched over a bulbous RCA microphone with a pointillist map of the
world behind him. CNN made him read viewers' tweets on the air.

At the peak of his run, in the late 1990s, ''Larry King Live'' regularly reached
more than 1.5 million viewers a night in the United States. That was a much
smaller audience than network prime time, but King's novelty was in his global
reach. While international TV ratings are difficult to measure, King was the big
rounded face of the network at a time when CNN was becoming the country's
signature media export. He was as recognizable abroad as Ronald Reagan or Bill
Clinton, and largely without the geopolitical baggage. His trademark
eccentricities were borderless. Mikhail Gorbachev met him for dinner wearing
suspenders. Paul Newman said that whenever he landed abroad, the first thing he
did was turn on CNN and look for King. He was Newman's own connection to home.
King could be a cultural touchstone as well as a familiar background noise.
Stephen Colbert told him he lost his virginity while listening to King's radio
show.

King was a broadcast pioneer who bridged the solemn authority figures of
yesteryear, like Walter Cronkite, with today's ''good TV'' yellers. He would
talk about whatever the story of the day was, highbrow or low (presidents and
movie stars and JonBenets). His style, endurance and presence became a form of
American confidence. Conspicuously, King's replacement, the British host Piers
Morgan, was seen as a critic of his adopted country. He would use the ''you
people'' construction, as if to signal that any confidence -- America's,
television's and certainly CNN's -- was no longer warranted.

Washington's media-political fancies always viewed King with both respect and
derision. The latter arose from King's refusal to play the tough-guy inquisitor
that had become the pose of so many ''TV journalist'' types. My colleague
Maureen Dowd once called King ''the resort area of American journalism.'' King
had an unabashed interest in celebrity and scandal, devoured the trial of his
old pal O.J. Simpson and spoke at the funeral of his dear friend Tammy Faye
Messner (formerly Bakker). Yet the famous and powerful coveted King's audience
and appreciated his unthreatening style. His questions were short, basic and
often open-ended (''Never been in the hotel? Never?'' he asked Nixon, referring
to the Watergate Hotel); solicitous (''How did you emotionally hold up?'' he
asked Clinton); and at times slyly provocative (Why do you keep saying if the
Holocaust happened? he asked President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran). He asked
Ronald Reagan what it was like to be shot.

King let his guests talk until he became bored, which tended to happen quickly.
''Larry had terrible A.D.D. issues,'' says his brother, Marty Zeiger. ''If there
had been those drugs back then, he might never have learned to compensate and
never would have become Larry King.''

There is an old Vaudeville saying: ''If you're not appearing, you're
disappearing.'' King appeared five times a week; he was the quirky uncle who
kept showing up for dessert until you found yourself setting a place for him in
the den out of habit. He appeared in 22 movies, playing (of course) himself. No
one was appearing more than Larry King, until he wasn't.

King's friends wondered if losing his CNN platform and vanishing from nightly
view would kill him, as a heart attack, quintuple bypass, prostate cancer and
diabetes had not. They worried about him in the same way that people worry about
older people falling into death spirals after their spouses of many years die.
The analogy is imperfect in the case of King, who has survived quite well
through the dissolution of seven previous marriages (he married the same woman
twice). But the parallel still came up a lot during my conversations with his
friends and family. ''It's like the camera was Larry's lover,'' Zeiger told me.
King speaks of being transformed the second he went on the air. On his first
day, his boss demanded that he jettison ''Zeiger'' (''too ethnic''), so he went
from being Lawrence Harvey Zeiger, a poor kid from Brooklyn who in 1957 took a
job as a fill-in host at a Miami radio station, to being Larry King. A revamped
and royal identity was born the second the red light went on.

Television can be a brutally seductive business for those who become
personalities. ''Appearing'' becomes their oxygen. Maybe that's why they call it
being on ''the air.'' As in: the air that King filled for decades and might as
well have breathed. But then suddenly there was no air, no ''Larry King Live''
-- was he now Larry King dead?

I asked King if he was ready to leave CNN or if the network fired him. It was
closer to the latter, he said. He always received three- and four-year
contracts. They offered one year. ''I saw it as writing on the wall,'' King
said. CNN aired its last ''Larry King Live'' on Dec. 18, 2010. The low point for
King came a few months after that, when he was watching TV at home on a Sunday
night and learned that Osama bin Laden had been killed. King jumped to his feet.
''I needed a car to come pick me up and take me somewhere,'' King told me. ''I
needed to be on the air. I needed a red light to go on. But I had nowhere to
go.''

It was 2013 when I first discovered Larry King in his broadcast afterlife. I had
written a book, and someone called and invited me to go on King's show. Larry
King? I thought he was long ago hauled off to the curb like an old Zenith. That
was how most people responded when I shared -- bragged -- that I would be going
on with Larry King. ''Larry King still has a show?'' they would say. ''Is Larry
King still alive?'' It can be easy to lose track sometimes, especially of those
aging, sick and canceled celebrities who reside in that purgatory between the
where-are-they-nows and the obits. Did we miss King's exit somewhere among the
deaths of Roger Ebert and Jonathan Winters and Annette Funicello?

King had landed at an online production outfit called Ora TV, which was started
by the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim. Slim was a longtime fan of King's and
wanted him to remain on the air. He funded the production company to keep King's
franchise alive, essentially, and even let King pick the name: ''Ora'' is Shawn
King's middle name.

Of course I would go on with King. It felt like a visit to the cultural grave:
the suspendered icon sitting in Los Angeles and visible again on a monitor,
while I sat in a remote studio in Washington. King closed the interview by
asking me, ''Is the Palm still the place to go in Washington?'' Sure, I said. He
asked: ''Next time I come to Washington, can we have lunch together at the
Palm?''

We met at the Palm last March. I took an immediate liking to King, beyond the
camp novelty of the encounter itself. (It's a bit unsettling to sit in the flesh
with someone whose image so wholly resides in a pixelated nether-dust.) We
started talking a lot on the phone after that -- a kind of ''Tuesdays With
Morrie'' tradition, only with Larry.

King was thrilled for my interest. ''I'm being followed by The New York Times,''
he told everyone when I was nearby. ''I must be somebody again. Go figure.''

No topic between King and me was off-limits except one: Piers Morgan. King's
publicist, Jen Hobbs, requested that I refrain from asking King anything about
the host who succeeded him on CNN. Things had become ornery between King and
Morgan, whose own show was canceled last year. King said in an interview with
Howard Stern that watching Morgan flame out in his slot was like when ''your
mother-in-law goes over the cliff in your new car.'' Morgan then called King a
''poisonous twerp'' and a ''graceless, petty little man'' on Twitter. I agreed
not to bring up Morgan with King. That was fine, because King brought Morgan up
himself, almost immediately (''What I didn't like about Piers is that he made
that show all about him''). Shawn King, a self-described ''good Mormon girl,''
later weighed in, too -- and in language hardly befitting a good Mormon girl.

King really wanted me to know how busy he was. He is now the host of three
shows, on various outlets, including one about baseball (''Larry King at Bat'')
on the Los Angeles Dodgers' cable network. He does a lot of paid speaking gigs
(''white-collar crime''). He endorsed a line of suspenders. On this trip to
Washington, King told me he would sit for interviews with The Washington Post,
The Washington Examiner, WTOP radio and podcasts, among other media engagements.

He invited me to join him at the Ritz Carlton for breakfast with David Theall
and Jason Rovou, ex-CNNers who followed him to Ora. Everyone but King ordered
eggs, which he found offensive. ''I despise eggs,'' he told me, and added, by
the way, that ''Jews like things very well cooked. Did you know that?'' (I did
not.) Other diners stared as King walked out after breakfast. ''I don't think
people would recognize the governor of Wisconsin if he walked in here,'' King
said, referring to Scott Walker, the presidential candidate. A dark-skinned man
approached and asked King if he would pose for a photo.

''Where are you from?'' King asked.

''Saudi Arabia,'' the man said.

''I'm a Jew!'' King informed him. ''You sure it's O.K. to get your picture taken
with a Jew back in Saudi Arabia?''

The man assured him that indeed Larry King had many fans in Saudi Arabia. They
smiled for the picture. ''Thank you, Mr. King,'' the man said. They shook hands,
and King looked him in the eye. ''Now,'' he said, ''please, go fight ISIS!''

That night, King would be appearing at the Newseum, a cutesy-named gallery of
American journalism history on Pennsylvania Avenue. The event was billed as ''A
Life in Broadcasting: A Conversation With Larry King,'' and he was interviewed
onstage by the former CNN anchor Leon Harris. ''A black and a Jew!'' King said,
referring to Harris and himself. King then took it further and asked Harris,
''Why did you want to eat at Woolworth?'' Nervous laughs and a few gasps: Uncle
Larry had arrived at the Seder.

King removed his jacket to reveal purple suspenders, and Harris listed career
credits. He called King ''an innovator'' for nearly seven decades and ''cable's
version of Walter Cronkite.'' They talked about King's old USA Today column, a
weekly hodgepodge of one-note items, opinions and plugs, as ''a forerunner to
Twitter.''

''I never thought I would be a forerunner,'' King said. The column was widely
read, and mocked, notably by the comedian Norm Macdonald in a ''Saturday Night
Live'' skit from the late 1990s. Macdonald would look into the camera and shout
proclamations in King's voice. He nailed its energetic banality. (''Here is the
dirty truth, gang: Poland Spring water does not come from Poland!'')

Jerry Seinfeld credits King with inventing the random spirit of Twitter years
before the technology enabled it. ''Larry King didn't invent drivel, but he
certainly created the business model for drivel, which was the column in USA
Today,'' Seinfeld told me. No disrespect to drivel: ''I've made a pretty nice
living off of drivel myself,'' he said.

King's Twitter feed, @kingsthings, has become a cult-camp sensation, with 2.6
million followers. He dictates his projectiles into a dedicated voice-mail box.
From there, an assistant transcribes them onto Twitter. The result is an
exuberant self-parody, or a social-media burlesque, or (if you prefer) art. It's
somewhat indistinguishable from the verbal crawl I had been observing in person.

''I rarely use lip balm.''

''Kiev is a hell of a town.''

''The fear of a colonoscopy is unwarranted.''

He mostly produces them in binges, late on Sunday nights. They are best consumed
in binges too, one after another, as if you're speed-eating M&Ms one at a time.
Seinfeld told me that King translates so well to Twitter because he understands
portion size. ''Sometimes we just want to experience verbiage but nothing that
requires any mental digestion,'' Seinfeld said. ''The question is: Is he going
to get even better when he enters dementia?''

''The rat is perfectly named.''

''It's strange, but I just thought about my tricycle.''

''I love to scratch an itch.''

The tweets convey wistfulness at times. There are notes of longing, nostalgia
and mourning.

''I can't stop thinking about the late Mario Cuomo... I miss him so much.''

''Do you funeral homes ever have a bad year?''

''I love the sound of little kids in a schoolyard.''

The Newseum conversation eventually veered to the specter of King's final
episode, his death. How can a story end well if he winds up in the ground? He is
planning to avoid that, he told Harris. King takes four human growth hormone
pills every day. People think H.G.H. is illegal because athletes are suspended
for using it. It is not, King says, and he feels great. But in case of death,
King wants the Ted Williams treatment. He has arranged to have his body frozen
and then thawed out when researchers discover a cure for whatever killed him --
the so-called cryonics approach. (Unlike Williams, King does not wish to have
his dead head cut off.) King told me later that the people behind cryonics are
''all nuts,'' but at least if he knows he will be frozen he will die with a
shred of hope. ''Other people have no hope,'' King said.

In May, I turned 50. The milestone came and went and left no great psychic toll.
But I found myself doing more mortality math in my head than I ever had -- how
many more years did I have with my kids and in my job and on this earth? I was
checking the relevance clock and wondering how long before I'd be ''aged out''
myself. It occurred to me that I no longer belonged to the 18-49 demographic
that TV people refer to as the ''key demo.''

I visited King at the Ora studio in Glendale, Calif. The office resembled an
Internet start-up: young staff members, snacks in the waiting room. Covering the
walls were photos of the octogenarian maestro posing with world leaders, the
Dalai Lama and Betty White. King took a seat on a couch and grabbed his powder
blue suspenders with both hands, as if he were strapping in for a ride. Over his
left shoulder was a photo of him standing between Evander Holyfield and Mike
Tyson while Tyson pretended to take a bite out of King's ear.

King was getting ready to tape ''Larry King Now.'' It was a long way from CNN,
but there was still a red light. King's show is also available on Hulu and RT,
the Russian state-funded television network. King is defensive about the latter.
''I do not work for the Russian government!'' he mentioned more than once. The
broadcast is not subject to any approval or censorship by the Russians, as far
as he knows.

The big ''get'' for that day's show was the rapper known as Bow Wow (formerly
Lil Bow Wow). Before Bow Wow arrived, King dispatched with preliminary
interviews that included the author of a book called ''The Rise of ISIS,'' which
King mistakenly called ''The Rise of Iris.'' This was not the first time King
had called the terror brigade ''Iris.'' He has history with an Iris -- Iris
Siegel, a long-ago teenage crush. ''Iris Siegel was every boy at Lafayette High
School's masturbatory fantasy,'' King told me, and then for some reason felt
that this required elaboration. ''We all masturbated to Iris Siegel!''

Between segments, King joined me in the waiting area while a makeup woman
touched up his forehead. His flip phone vibrated. Shawn was calling. ''I'm
sitting here with a big admirer of yours,'' King said. ''You know, he works for
The New York Times, so we both work for Carlos Slim'' -- King was always
reminding me about how Slim owned a big chunk of the newspaper. A cluster of
people entered the office. ''And Bow Wow has arrived,'' King announced, hanging
up on Shawn.

Bow Wow, whose real name is Shad Moss, enlisted King in a selfie. He called King
''iconic'' and appeared slightly nervous. ''Larry is huge with rappers,'' David
Theall explained to me. I sat in the control room while King walked Bow Wow onto
the set. The interview started, and King's questions were awesome:

''What makes a good rapper?''

''Is it singing?''

''You can hum a rap song?''

In response to a query about his upbringing, Bow Wow told King that his father
was never in the picture, which inspired this declaration from the host: ''The
strongest individual in America is the black single mother!'' King closed with a
lightning round in which he asked, If you could have one superpower, what would
it be? Bow Wow answered that he would like to be invisible.

''Me, too!'' King exploded.

Later, I mentioned to King that I was surprised by his dream of invisibility. It
was the opposite of what I expected from someone who relished being so present
and seen. ''Oh, but think about it,'' King said. ''If I could be invisible, I
could walk on a plane, I wouldn't need a ticket and I could sit with the
pilot.'' He would reap such a bonanza of consequence-free mischief and
information. But if he were invisible, then how would he disseminate what he
learned? No one would see him on TV. King made an adjustment: He told me he
would like the ability to go back and forth between visible and invisible. He
could still have dinner with friends. And then he could make himself invisible
and follow them home. ''Would I like to see my friends having sex? Yes.''

He added the caveat that his friends wouldn't be at their current ages. ''Unless
they have pretty wives.''

Shawn King, who is 55, can be both protective and contemptuous of her husband.
Wife No. 7 has been the current Mrs. King for nearly 18 years. They met outside
Tiffany's in Beverly Hills, in a chance encounter that inspired the name of
their first son, Chance, now 16. Their second son, Cannon, 15, was named after
the street he was conceived on, North Canon Drive. (King clarified that the
event actually transpired in a house, not on the pavement.) King's marriage to
Shawn, an actress, singer and former homecoming queen at North Hollywood High
School, is the only one of his eight that has lasted into double digits. King
has three grown children with his previous wives; some of the women from his
past have spoken most uncharitably about King in various forums -- recurring
themes being infidelity, immaturity, self-absorption and deception.

But he's capable of great charm when pursuing women, and they often marvel at
King's wizardry in this regard. ''When he was trying to woo me, he kept sending
me over boxes of Hot Tamales,'' Shawn told me. ''He knew I loved them -- the
candies. It was very sweet.'' He lured prospective dates to dinner with famous
friends. ''I love the chase!'' King told me, and his eyes -- gray slits behind
glasses -- suddenly bulged with life. (''I love to scratch an itch.'')

''Let me tell you the story about the first night I spent with Angie,'' King
told me, referring to the actress Angie Dickinson, the star of ''Police Woman.''
King loves telling people, including me (three times), that he used to go out
with her. Dickinson would seem the pinnacle of the former Larry Zeiger's ''look
how far I've come'' routine.

The morning after his ''night with Angie,'' King called his best friend from
growing up, Herb Cohen. ''Guess where the hell I am, Herbie?'' King said. ''I'm
at Angie Dickinson's house!'' That's the whole story.

''This wouldn't be for print,'' King told me. ''Or, I don't know, maybe it would
be for print. You tell me?''

Inevitably the chase would end -- with a warded-off advance, or lunge, or
surrender, or wedding. And then King stopped trying. Shawn told me about an
evening shortly after they were married. They were in the back of a limo, and
King raised his left buttock and expelled a thunderous fart. Shawn was appalled.
King merely shrugged. ''What, do you want me to be uncomfortable?'' said King,
the incurable romantic. Shawn told me, laughing, that at that point she knew the
courtship was officially over.

I asked King when we were eating at the Palm how he and Shawn had managed to
stay together. They were separated for about two months in 2010. It was an
unfortunate time. Shawn believed King was having an affair with her younger
sister, Shannon. ''It was just a flirtation,'' King insisted. ''I never made
love to her.'' He and Shawn reunited for the sake of the boys, and, King said,
because they missed each other. He was being treated for prostate cancer at the
time. ''I'm still sorry I did it,'' King said. I assumed he was talking about
Shannon, but he was referring to the prostate surgery. The doctors were split on
how to proceed, and King chose the more aggressive treatments. ''Now I can't get
it up,'' he said. He quoted the former Yankees manager Joe Torre, another
prostate-cancer survivor -- King is always name-dropping wisdom through his
celebrity friends. ''What would you rather do, have sex or die?'' he said. The
waiter arrived with more radishes, just in time.

The day after the Bow Wow interview, King was driving me around Beverly Hills in
his black Lincoln. The car smelled new and was perfectly uncluttered except for
a tube of Polident on the dashboard. A handicap-parking pass hung from the
rearview mirror even though King can walk perfectly well (his father-in-law, who
was not with us, suffers from neuropathy in his feet and walks with a cane).
King leases a new Lincoln every two years, and I made a crack about his doing
the same with wives. He did not laugh.

''I understand the impulse to always be looking for something else,'' King told
me. That extends to the culture, and especially television viewers, who are
seeking the next thing and leaving behind the old standbys. I asked King if, for
the sake of changing with the medium, he ever considered becoming more combative
on CNN. Never. ''If you're combative, you never learn,'' he told me. He would
always want to make his guests feel welcome. ''Oh, I would love to interview
Hitler,'' King said. Ideally, it would be several years after World War II, had
Hitler lived. King might prepare a little bit (''maybe I'd skim 'Mein Kampf' or
something'') but would mostly improvise. ''Hitler had a mother,'' King said, and
he would want her to come on his show too. He chuckled at the thought. ''I'd ask
her, 'Why didn't you have an abortion?' ''

We stopped back at the Kings' house to pick up Karl Engemann, Shawn's
85-year-old father. He is a sweet and gentle man, and an observant Mormon. King
introduced me to his father-in-law and started in on one of his riffs about how
religion is a big delusion. ''Karl thinks he's going somewhere after he dies,''
King said, and his voice assumed a slightly baiting tone. ''Don't you, Karl?''
Karl nodded, and King smirked.

I asked King how he's so certain that the afterlife is not a portal to some
glorious dimension. There was silence for a few blocks. This is a topic he has
surveyed deeply: ''Martin Short says people die every night when we sleep,''
King told me. Sleep is like a nightly preview. I mentioned that people find
sleep pleasant, so why shouldn't death be?

''I don't know what I'm doing when I'm sleeping,'' King replied. ''I'm not
anything.''

It was early evening when we returned to the King house. Shawn was out getting
her nails done. King disappeared upstairs and returned with a bottle of human
growth hormone, which he presented to me as if he were handing over a cherished
stash of gold pellets. ''Here, some H.G.H. for the road,'' he said. ''I'll send
you home healthy.'' He showed me the items in his den, or ''trophy room'' -- the
cardboard cutout of Sinatra wearing Jewish payos, the portrait of King made
entirely of jelly beans, his Emmy for Lifetime Achievement. ''Try lifting this
thing,'' King told me. ''It's heavier than the usual Emmy.'' He mentioned that
George Washington University has tapes of his old radio show, in case his kids
ever want to listen. On the wall above the front door, he pointed to two bright
paintings that his sons made in an art class when they were toddlers. ''Carlos
Slim told me these were works of genius,'' he boasted. ''You never know where
you might find genius.''

He kept walking me into new rooms, showing off various accolades and telling me
of others. ''You know I was nominated for a Shorty Award,'' King said. ''That's
for social-media excellence -- for the tweets.'' What happens to his tweets
after he dies? Could they offer a few stray pixels of Larry immortality? Or will
they just fade away and be forgotten? ''I won't be here anyway,'' King
concluded, ''so what does it matter?''

Everything was dark around him when I left except the glow of the TV.

''If my wife is late for my funeral, I will be very angry.''

King would love to attend his own funeral. He would watch invisibly over the
proceedings and laugh. ''I would like the ceremony to begin, 'Today we are
honoring a 160-year-old man who was caught in bed by an irate husband,' '' King
said. '' 'And the funeral is late because it took six days to wipe the smile off
his face.' ''

The service would be at a synagogue, out of respect for his mother. It is
unclear what would then happen to his body, how it would be frozen and where it
would be housed, to say nothing of his soul. But he wants a rabbi to say the
Mourner's Kaddish. Rituals are important. ''I think Clinton might speak,'' King
mentioned, again.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/larry-king-is-preparing-for-the-final
-cancellation.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: King at the Ora TV studio in Glendale, Calif. (MM50)
Larry King with his wife, Shawn King, at their home in Beverly Hills. (MM53)
 Producing ''Larry King Now'' at the Ora TV studio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRAEME
MITCHELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM54)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RELIGION (77%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (62%);
CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (62%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can I Wear Jewelry If I Don't Support Its Origins?

BYLINE: By KWAME ANTHONY APPIAH, AMY BLOOM and KENJI YOSHINO.

Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. His most recent book is
''Lines of Descent: W. E. B. Du Bois and the Emergence of Identity.'' Amy Bloom
is a novelist and had a psychotherapy practice for 25 years. Her most recent
book is ''Lucky Us.'' Kenji Yoshino teaches law at N.Y.U. and is the author,
most recently, of ''Speak Now: Marriage Equality on Trial.''

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICISTS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 794 words


When my mother passed away, I inherited an antique necklace made of carved ivory
beads. I love the look of -- and am sentimentally tied to -- this necklace, but
I am also a supporter of anti-poaching programs and organizations. I have
avoided wearing the necklace because I don't want to appear to support the ivory
trade. On the other hand, I hate not being able to wear one of the few pieces of
jewelry that I have from my mother. What should I do with the necklace? J. F.,
TUSTIN, CALIF.

Kwame Anthony Appiah: I'm a bit puzzled about why wearing an antique ivory
necklace involves appearing to support the ivory trade. If it's antique, then
the ivory was taken before restrictions on ivory were imposed. Of course, the
reason ivory exists is that somebody killed an elephant to be used in this
decorative way. Somewhere in the chain, there's likely to be a moment when
something rather awful happened. But I don't think that you're contributing to
that wrong in the present by wearing this antique necklace.

Amy Bloom: Any antique jewelry, with or without stones, was likely to have been
made under conditions that would make a decent person shudder. If the necklace
was made before any trade ban, you're not supporting those terrible conditions
now. The other thing this question made me think about is people who criticize
you for wearing ivory. There's that wish that people have to comment on other
people's choices, whether or not they have the necessary information. It doesn't
seem to me that intrusive self-righteousness qualifies as ethical behavior,
either. I would very much encourage you to wear the necklace and enjoy the
feeling of closeness to your mother. Most of what I have from my mother is a
couple of rings and a couple of necklaces, and I'm sure those pieces were not
made in a charming, well-lit atelier. I'm still going to wear them. Ethical
behavior does not consist of accosting people at cocktail parties about what
they're wearing.

Kenji Yoshino: I found myself more conflicted about this question than either of
you appear to be. The letter writer fears that she will look like she is
supporting the ivory trade if she is seen wearing the necklace. I do think that
this is a real possibility. In an ideal world, any person who interprets her
behavior that way would raise the issue (civilly, of course), and she would be
able to explain her position. But for each one of those individuals, there will
be many who misinterpret her behavior and don't challenge her on it. What do we
owe those individuals? I am not encouraging her to sell the necklace, but I did
wonder if the wiser course might be to enjoy the necklace in private and not
wear it in public.

Bloom: I cannot imagine spending your life getting invested in the opinions of
people who are standing there judging you, silently or aloud.

Appiah: It would be O.K. to care about those judgments if they were correct. But
given that they're incorrect, and given that making this incorrect judgment
isn't going to lead these people to do anything terrible to elephants, it seems
to me that your responsibility to these people is discharged if you tell them
the truth, which is that wearing these beads doesn't contribute in any way
either to the thought that it's O.K. to kill elephants now or to the actual
trade in modern ivory.

Yoshino: Is that true, though? I agree that the incorrect beliefs of others
should not guide our own ethical decision-making. My concern is that not all the
beliefs of others in this instance may be incorrect. By wearing this ivory
necklace, the letter writer is signaling to the world that ivory is still a
luxury good, that it is something to be prized and admired. By wearing the
necklace, she may encourage others to engage in unethical behavior -- that is,
participation in the modern ivory trade.

Appiah: If I thought that the wearing of this necklace in the community in which
it will be worn would encourage people to go out looking for modern ivory, I
would worry a bit. But you're not responsible for thoughts that other people
have that are a result of misinterpreting what you're doing unless that
misinterpretation is a natural one. This is an antique necklace -- it's a
mistake to infer from it that it's O.K. to go on treating elephants in the awful
ways that are required to get ivory.

Yoshino: Assuming that you are correct -- that there will be no natural
confusion between antique and modern ivory -- I would be persuaded that the
letter writer could ethically wear the necklace in public. If other people
engage her in conversation about it, that's great. If they don't, that would be
their issue, not hers.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/can-i-wear-jewelry-if-i-dont-support-
its-origins.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LA TIGRE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE JEWELRY (89%); ETHICS (86%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bygone Ways

BYLINE: By TAMAR ADLER

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; EAT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1174 words


Out with the old and in with the new! Or so the saying goes. But it often goes
the opposite way for me: In a reading life full of recipes, I like old ones
better. I didn't realize how much, or why, until I recently started writing a
book updating a hundred of them -- mostly from the 20th century, but all with
timeworn roots.

There are pedagogical givens of any time. It is only when rubbed up against the
givens of another that they show. The recipe of our age has a title that
describes its ambition (like ''Vietnamese Chicken Salad''), then a list of
ingredients and a series of calibrations -- measurements, oven temperatures,
time intervals. It is objective and idealistic, pledging to be ''fastest,''
''simplest,'' ''best,'' ''perfect.'' It shies from narrative. It lacks
contingencies -- orienting itself literally and figuratively toward the
supermarket, with its standard and constant inventory.

Older recipes, by contrast, sometimes skip titles altogether, using simply
numbers or a Choose Your Own Adventure construction: ''To Sauté Fresh Peas, With
or Without Their Pod'' (''If you want to sauté peas in their pod, take the
tenderest ones and cut off their flower end. ...'') or ''To Make a Quince,
Apricot or White Pear-Plum Pudding.'' Rarely do they supply lists of required
ingredients, meaning cook it if you have it. Often old recipes hang their
teaching on narrative, with an almost biblical surety that the way to cement
information in the human mind is to plot it on a closely described arc of
action. They are firmly anti-idealistic. They are full of contingencies.

I especially like the tacit admissions, often found in cookbooks of yesteryear,
that not every meal will be extraordinary. In the preface to recipe No. 59 of
his 1891 ''Science in the Kitchen and the Art of Eating Well,'' Pellegrino
Artusi writes, ''Among ordinary soups, this ranks with the best.'' Being
permitted a category of ''ordinary'' is a charity to any cook, especially today,
when we feel obliged to apologize for anything plain. His previous recipe notes
that its result ''is good warm and it is even better cold.'' Here, too, there is
no end to the good that hint does, when what all cooks need each Wednesday night
is cultural support for leftovers -- as well as dishes that taste good that way.

Some old recipes, like ''Omelette aux Fines Herbes,'' from Alexandre Dumas's
1873 ''Great Dictionary of Cuisine,'' conjure a bright-edged and pleasurable
cooking experience through clear description: ''Break some eggs into a salad
bowl, and beat them with a wicker beater. ... Pour half a glass of cream into
the mixture, and beat it once more.'' Even without scientific reason, all other
things equal, it seems better to froth eggs in a ceramic salad bowl than an
impersonal plastic one. And there is irrepressible joy to Dumas's end: ''Have a
platter ready which has been buttered with the freshest possible butter and
sprinkled with some more fresh fines herbes.''

And this, for the pudding-of-some-fruit, from Hannah Glasse in 1774, is more
specific and harder to forget than any contemporary pudding recipe I can think
of: ''Scald your quinces very tender, pare them very thin; scrape off the soft;
mix it with sugar very sweet, put in a little ginger and a little cinnamon. To a
pint of cream you must put three or four yolks of eggs, and stir it into your
quinces till they are of a good thickness. It must be pretty thick. So you may
do apricots or white pear-plums. Butter your dish, pour it in and bake it.''

At their best, old recipes remind us of what it means to be a human eater in the
world. In his magisterial 1570 tome ''The Works,'' the papal chef Bartolomeo
Scappi will begin his recipes with ''Get a turtledove in its season'' or ''Get a
thrush in its season, between the end of September and the end of February. That
bird must especially be fresh to be good.'' Or, my favorite: ''137. Several Ways
to Spit-Roast and Do Up All Sorts of Pheasants and Old Pheasants. There are two
sorts of pheasants: wild ones, called wood grouse, and local ones; the wild sort
is black like a crow and has brownish eyelids and a smooth beak, and is bigger
than the local sort. Many of them are born in the Grigioni and Swiss hills.
Their season goes from October to the end of February; in the snowing season
they are very fat.''

In today's recipe, all that binding is gone -- the season, the weather, the
color of birds' eyelids; the notion that a person should know what ''a little,''
''very sweet'' and ''thick'' mean. But we need it. That binding contains other
facts we too often forget: That our poultry was a bird. That what a bird looks
like matters to how it tastes. That animals have seasonal behaviors, as do
plants, as do we. That the world is not a supermarket at all, but a hurly-burly
sloping tilting whorl of subordinations and dependencies -- and our recipes
should not try to fool us into thinking otherwise. The year turns. Seasons
change. Things die. Some fresh peas are more tender than others.

For a ''new'' version of this recipe, click here.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.

Recipe: Pickled Shrimp

Shrimp season is summer and fall in marshy coastal Georgia and South Carolina
and in the Louisiana Gulf. If you can find shrimp from any of those places at
those times of year, get enough for eating for several weeks, and make this
marinated or pickled shrimp, which lasts that long. There is a version of a
recipe for this everywhere, over eons, including in Sciappi's "The Works." His
recipe is for a fish called gilthead, but the method and result are almost
identical. Something very similar to this exact recipe was popular through the
middle of last century as Pickled Shrimp, or Shrimp Sea Island. And the Alabama
chef Frank Stitt has a recipe almost exactly like this one, in one of his fine
cookbooks.

2 pounds shrimp, peeled and deveined, tails on

4 scallions, mostly white, quartered or in eighths lengthwise

2 cloves garlic, sliced lengthwise, very thinly

1/2 cup lemon juice

1/4 cup white-wine vinegar

2 teaspoons kosher salt

1 1/2 teaspoons fennel seed

1 1/2 teaspoons coriander

10 dried chiles, broken once or left whole

1 pod cardamom

1 lemon, quartered and thinly sliced

1 cup olive oil

1/4 cup roughly chopped fresh oregano

a few peppercorns

4 bay leaves

1/4 onion and/or leek

1 clove garlic

a few sprigs fresh thyme or oregano

1. Make court bouillon for shrimp: Put a few peppercorns, 4 bay leaves, 1/4
onion and/or leek, 1 clove garlic and a few sprigs fresh thyme or oregano in a
pot of water. Bring to a boil, and let cook 15 minutes. Then add 1 teaspoon salt
and shrimp, and cook for 2-3 minutes at below a boil. Remove shrimp with a
strainer.

2. In separate bowl, combine all other ingredients except oil and oregano. Let
sit 5 minutes. Add shrimp. Mix well. Add oil, and mix. Add oregano, and mix.
Serve at least 5 hours later and ideally the next day, cold or room temperature.

Yield:





URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/magazine/what-we-learn-from-old-recipes.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRANT CORNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM32
 MM34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); RANKINGS
(50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When the Bad News Is Your News

BYLINE: By BETH MACY.

Beth Macy is the author of ''Factory Man: How One Furniture Maker Battled
Offshoring, Stayed Local -- and Helped Save an American Town.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1135 words


ROANOKE, Va. -- The young journalists had just been reported dead when the calls
and messages started pouring in late Wednesday morning. They came by email and
phone, via Twitter and Facebook: The diaspora was calling home.

The messages were from reporters who used to work in our small- to medium-size
media market, the kind that journalists stop through on their way to bigger,
more exciting datelines. As one of the tribe described it, the Roanoke market is
the place where you live in crappy apartments and shop the T. J. Maxx clearance
racks so you can move up to a bigger market and shop at Macy's instead.

Like them, I was only passing through, or so I told myself, when I arrived here
to work at The Roanoke Times in 1989, the same age as 24-year-old Alison Parker.
A hometown girl of sorts -- she was from Martinsville, an hour away -- Ms.
Parker and the 27-year-old cameraman Adam Ward were gunned down by a disgruntled
former WDBJ employee while doing a feature on tourism, of all things, at nearby
Smith Mountain Lake, a place so bucolic that it served as the location for the
Bill Murray comedy ''What About Bob?''

They were shooting a live remote for the longstanding WDBJ program ''Mornin',''
a show where they still post viewers' pictures on their birthdays (''No
professional photos, please''). The program traces its roots back to early
Roanoke broadcast media, beginning with a country music radio program hosted by
an almost-60-year fixture in Roanoke media known as Cousin Irv, whose live
program was called ''Top o' the Mornin'.''

Unlike the national media, Cousin Irv would have known you pronounce Moneta, the
lakeside community where the shootings took place, Mo-NEE-ta, not Mo-NET-a, as
the CBS News team that swooped in to cover the story did.

Though I left the paper more than a year ago, I was as rattled as the rest of my
former newspaper colleagues, who wanted to offer support but weren't sure how to
proceed.

An editor in York, Pa., called wanting to know: Was it too soon to send pizza to
the station?

An editor who works in Dallas, sitting at his mother's nursing-home bedside in
Champaign-Urbana, Ill., reeled as the story unfolded, recalling the first murder
he'd ever covered as an intern -- in Moneta, in fact -- and what it was like
''seeing a dead body for the first time, sprawled among the fallen leaves,
behind yellow police tape.''

Many of us had been inaugurated into the weary fraternity of trauma reporting by
the Virginia Tech shootings in 2007, including my former colleagues still at the
newspaper who now found themselves back on another hastily assembled ''victims
team,'' as our editors called those of us who had the sad task of putting
together tribute stories.

I ferried the diaspora's messages of support to them and to other journalist
friends at WDBJ and the local NPR affiliate, including words of wisdom from the
psychiatrist Frank Ochberg, the chairman emeritus of the Dart Center for
Journalism and Trauma at the Columbia Journalism School. (I was a 2011 Dart
Center Ochberg fellow.) I've been recycling these tips to fellow reporters with
frequency lately, every time news of this sort hits:

Consider bringing in an outside journalist to cover the news story. If you bring
in counselors to talk to traumatized reporters, make sure they understand
newsroom culture. Talk to journalists who have gone through similar reporting
challenges. Above all, take care of one another.

At the end of the first news cycle, my friend Evelio called, his voice choking
up so much he could barely get out hello. Now a videographer for CNN, he'd been
baptized by the Virginia Tech shootings, too, then headed off to several bigger
cities before landing in New York. He was covering the Newtown, Conn., school
shooting for CNN when he began to notice a pattern of civic response: the fourth
day. That's when the communities turn inward and start blaming the media --
instead of just the shooter -- for pressing the story.

''I can't believe this happened to Roanoke again,'' he said. ''It's like it's
getting a reputation for being ...'' his voice trailed off.

My friend Roland Lazenby finished Evelio's thought during the next phone call:
The word he offered, tentatively, was cursed.

Another Roanoke Times veteran who now writes books and teaches, Roland was Adam
Ward's media-writing professor at Virginia Tech the fall after the April 16,
2007, shootings there occurred.

In earlier years, he recalled, he assigned his students to write fake ''bad
news'' stories, just to get experience. But now he didn't need to -- the
fictions were horrifyingly real: The 2006-07 school year had begun with a
hospital security guard and a police officer murdered nearby.

During Mr. Ward's sophomore year, in January 2008, an unhinged grad student
beheaded a fellow student at the campus Au Bon Pain. At the start of Mr. Ward's
junior year, two Virginia Tech sophomores, David Metzler and Heidi Childs, were
shot to death on Jefferson National Forest property, about 12 miles from
Virginia Tech.

''It was such a strange aftermath when Adam came into that class,'' Roland told
me, describing the semester immediately following the shootings. ''It was like
we were all sort of walking on this hallowed ground, and we didn't know how to
proceed.''

Then the violent stories kept coming, ''and it just cuts the heart out of you
every time.'' Roland told me he didn't want to sound like ''some yay-hoo from
the hinterlands. But when your violence is being aired live on CNN and you live
in a relatively rural, out-of-the-way area, that's an indication that something
is amiss.''

These things aren't supposed to happen in a place where your biggest media
celebrity in history is a man named Cousin Irv.

On Thursday morning, the calls and posts were still coming. I got up early to
watch the 6:45 news tribute to Ms. Parker and Mr. Ward on WDBJ, one day to the
minute since the killings occurred. The anchor, Kimberly McBroom, stifled tears
as she held hands with a Springfield, Mo., co-anchor brought in from ''a sister
station'' in the chain, and with the longtime Roanoke meteorologist Leo
Hirsbrunner. Like the diaspora, they were doing all the things the Dart Center
advises: taking remarkable care of their viewers, and one another.

But these reporters were navigating brand-new waters, reporting on not just a
community tragedy but also their own.

After the commercial break came the usual closing weather segment. Mr.
Hirsbrunner's voice cracked as he waved his hands over the map and talked about
a quiet weather day but for Tropical Storm Erika, now targeting the Caribbean.

He seemed to be speed-reading the weather report. ''I'm going to try to finish
strong for Alison and Adam,'' he said.

I wrote back to my buddy in York. It's O.K. to send pizza now.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/27/opinion/when-the-tragedy-youre-covering-is-you
r-own.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%);
SHOOTINGS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS
(72%); COUNTRY MUSIC (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); T J MAXX (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

CITY: ROANOKE, VA, USA (93%); YORK, PA, USA (51%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Raging as My Sister's Light Dims

BYLINE: By SARA LUKINSON.

Sara Lukinson is a writer and documentary filmmaker who lives in New York City.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1163 words


Don't let anyone try to soft-pedal what is going on, use metaphors and literary
allusions to turn my sister's cancer into a great meeting with the blessings of
life.

Or a renewed appreciation for every day, and the small moments that carry
happiness.

This is a slow descent into a darkening madness, where no words, no efforts, no
attempts at soothing humor can mask the horror, the unfairness, the
flesh-pulling tightness you feel at every turn. Which isn't to say there aren't
moments every day when life feels snugly familiar. You laugh, you tease, you
watch TV and complain there's nothing on. You gorge on bowls of chocolate
chocolate-chip ice cream and ask for more.

As people grow sicker, they become more of who they are, not less.

My sister, Karen, was always proud of me, now she is prouder; always sweet, now
she's sweeter. Her head was often somewhere up in the clouds, making it easier
for her to talk about the world than be in it.

She's always been more of a watercolor than an oil painting, only now some of
the streaks of colors are beginning to run.

As often happens with sisters, a lot about her exasperated me. Her dreaminess
could border on practical ineptitude: The logistics of washing the dishes or
making a living seemed beyond her. She could drive me nuts, but she could also
floor me with deft, penetrating observations. And how she loved me.

Her pride in me had become part of her raison d'être. I thought some of her
reasons should be about her own life. Small and circumspect as it was.

Now, I can see her fading, after months of living on the fumes of chemotherapy
and hope.

There is no self-pity, no whining. She said she felt as if she was letting me
down, abandoning me. After her, I won't have one family root left in the ground.
Not one person who remembers. Or wants only the best for me.

Her walk is wobbly, her hands shake. Her eyes can go flat.

She said the medications made her feel out of her own body, that she didn't
speak like herself or move like herself. ''What can I do?'' I ask feebly. ''Be
patient,'' she says. And I want to hide my inner impatience with shame. Because
for decades, I've bristled at her edge-of-fear look, that hesitancy before
taking a step. Only now it's longer and deeper. Watching it seize her makes me
feel I'm being sucked out of the sky. Her life had become a full-time managing
of her disease, hiding the next turn in the road.

But until death is in the room, it's easier than you'd think to revert to
lifelong habits of instant annoyances, petty bickering.

A turn of her head, a certain faraway look, and I could forget she's sick and
get mad at her. I yelled at her not long ago over some important tax forms, I
can't remember anymore why. Horrible me.

I do try hard to be of comfort and show kindness to her. I cook her favorite
meals and buy her underwear. I remind her she was always the pretty one. To make
her laugh, I tell her she doesn't walk that much more slowly than she used to.

I live a long flight and universe away. I didn't want to be the only caregiver,
but there were no husbands, kids or friends close enough to ask. Or free enough
to stay. I was the one her soul wanted to sit with.

For the last 18 months, I'd been flying down from New York to her cancer clinic
in Little Rock, Ark. (a town neither of us had ever been to), about every six
weeks, and staying for two. There, it was waiting and more waiting, forms and
vials, and over-air-conditioned rooms, loud TVs blaring used-car ads with Elvis
impersonators. You waited for your portion of the magic-potion toxic drugs they
offered up against the haughty, unstoppable cancers that marched like rows of
soldiers stretching back so far you couldn't see their ends. To them, my
sister's body was nothing more than a flat expanse, easy for the taking.

When I am away from her, my hours are scorched with anxiety. Until I hear from
her, I am restless with dread.

With each new piece of news that began, ''we could try this,'' there was a sharp
spear of fear that jabbed right into the center of you, a scalding hot surge
that spread from your guts through your chest, across your arms and up into your
face. And I looked at this familiar face of hers, and gagged on my rage, that
she had to live through this, be tormented by it. She said she wanted to endure
whatever gave her more time, so that we are sisters for another day. I am torn
into shreds knowing she knows she is going to die. How do you look someone you
love in the eye and know they know? I've done it with each parent. I've looked
down that dark, bottomless pool and I don't want to look there again. That empty
space where there used to be her.

And then there is me. I confess, I feel sorry for me.

Why did my adored family have to die before their time? Why didn't I get to
watch my parents grow old, or go on a silly cruise with my sister?

Why do I have to stand in the middle of the road by myself?

Why must I ask a friend to take me in for Thanksgiving, or if I can put her name
down to call in case of emergency? And who will I turn to, when I don't get the
job, or when I do?

So, when people say, cherish every moment with your sister, she is still very
much alive, it's a lot of crap.

You watch her smile and stumble through the hallways, be patient through long
rounds of needle jabbing, machine poking and fear-inducing lab reports. What
kind of day is that?

When it's all over, I know, from unwilling experience, I will cherish the hours
of just being in the same room with her. The boredom and the terror will have
evaporated and the sweet effortlessness of being together will remain.

But being in it is a slow dance in hell. You are helpless, you are afraid, you
are restless and impatient. I want to be outside the circle of fire that rings
our campsite, to run away and have it be back to normal.

People like to say, don't let your mind run too far ahead. But it does, because
fear is a faster runner than I am. Sitting with her I am calm and furious,
loving and angry, knowing what a gift it is to have such a sister. Wretched to
be forced, again, into the slavery of disease. Of having to serve it, and bow to
it. I want to escape and be in the light of life. Then, I feel gutted and guilty
for wanting to flee.

She said she was doing all this so she did not fail me, so I wouldn't be left
alone. And leaving me without her is the worst thing she could ever do, after a
lifetime of guardian angel-ing me.

Along the way, there had been patches of sunlight peeping through the forest.
Something more to try, more time to hope for. Then it was clear it was futile,
and treatment gave way to easing her end. Now, as the breath of life ebbs away,
I keep close to her side. She has never seemed braver or more beautiful to me.
Still herself, still my sister.

Sara Lukinson is a writer and documentary filmmaker who lives in New York City.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/08/29/raging-against-the-dying-of-my-s
isters-light/

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION
(73%); PAINTING (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Enclave Attached to Its Past

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1319 words


The Silvermine Tavern was once a defining landmark for the wooded Silvermine
area that overlaps Norwalk, Wilton and New Canaan, Conn. Set along the
Silvermine River among other historic buildings from the area's early days as a
mill village, the white-clapboard tavern in Norwalk drew out-of-towners with its
reputation as a Sunday brunch destination, wedding backdrop and jazz spot. For
locals, the tavern, in a 200-year-old building, provided something more
fundamental.

''The tavern was the social center,'' said Lee Levey, a 29-year resident of
Silvermine and the president of the Norwalk Association of Silvermine Homeowners
(known as NASH), which used to hold meetings there.

So in 2009, when Frank Whitman, whose family had run the tavern since the 1950s,
announced its closure, the community feared it might lose a precious asset and a
key piece of a district listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The
property had been on the market since 2007.

Now, the tavern property is undergoing a major makeover, which comes as a relief
to many residents but is a source of concern to others. Andrew Glazer, a local
developer, bought it last year after it was rezoned as a village district from
what had been a nonconforming use in a residential zone. He is building four
homes on a 1.6-acre parking lot across the street. Construction has yet to begin
on the tavern, which includes several buildings. Mr. Glazer's plan calls for
renovating the restaurant into a smaller version with seating for about 60, an
inn with six rooms (it had offered 12), and a kitchen-and-garden store.

''The plan looks great, and it will bring energy back into Silvermine,'' said
Christine Names, a past president of NASH who moved to the area from Manhattan
10 years ago. However, she said, Mr. Glazer's renovation of a building next to
the tavern for use as his residence has created some tension over the project.

The former mill building he renovated as his home is also on the historic
register. But Mr. Levey, a preservation architect, said that in his opinion, as
a result of the renovation, ''It is no longer historic. The historic fabric on
the outside has been removed.'' Worried that the same might happen to the
tavern, NASH has expressed its concerns to city zoning officials, he said.

In a brief phone conversation, Mr. Glazer said he was ''not interested'' in
talking about his project.

The community's mixed emotions stem from an awareness of how bound up
Silvermine's cachet is with its past. Its mill-center origins are as prized as
its transformation to an artist colony in the early 1900s, a legacy that lives
on at the Silvermine Arts Center, an arts hub that attracts some 12,000 visitors
a year to its classes, galleries and events.

Solon Borglum, the sculptor known for his depictions of the American frontier,
is credited with establishing Silvermine as an arts colony after his arrival
there in the early 1900s. Other artists who followed often gathered to critique
or ''knock'' one another's work in Borglum's barn studio. First calling
themselves the Knockers, they later became the Silvermine Group of Artists.
After Borglum's death in 1922, they formed an artist guild that was the genesis
for the existing arts center.

What You'll Find

About three miles long and a mile wide, Silvermine extends from either side of
the Silvermine River, starting in Norwalk and ending at Silvermine Pond in New
Canaan, according to the Silvermine Community Association. The narrow roads wind
through a landscape lush with trees, streams and ponds.

Converted mill properties, farmhouses and antique colonials are still plentiful,
though more new construction has lately popped up here and there as more
property owners have subdivided, according to Sue Cruikshank, a board member of
the Silvermine Community Association.

The area is very popular with commuters, as it is convenient to Interstate 95,
the Merritt Parkway and the train.

What You'll Pay

Silvermine is not broken out as its own neighborhood on the Norwalk and New
Canaan multiple listing services, making an overall median home price hard to
come by. Such a figure would likely be misleading anyway, since prices vary by
town location.

''New Canaan is far more expensive than Norwalk, and Wilton is in the middle,''
said Bob Travers, an agent with Coldwell Banker who specializes in Silvermine.
''But Silvermine is considered a desirable area within each of the towns.''

Properties listed earlier this month ranged from a low of $329,000 for a
three-bedroom Cape Cod in Norwalk to a high of $4.995 million for a six-bedroom
stone-and-shingle house in New Canaan.

Inventory is at a peak for the year, and there are some price reductions as a
result, Mr. Travers said. Four- and five-bedroom colonials abound, most priced
just below $1 million in Norwalk and well above in the rest of Silvermine.

Condominiums at Silvermine Woods, in Wilton, come with memberships to the
adjoining Silvermine Golf Club, according to Tom Hanson, an agent with Realty
Quest. Prices for the 24 two- to four-bedroom townhouses typically range from
about $800,000 to well over $1 million, depending on size and updates, he said.

The 27 condominiums at the Falls, in Norwalk, have two to four bedrooms. A
three-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bath unit was listed earlier this month for
$999,000.

What to Do

The private Silvermine Golf Club, which straddles Norwalk and Wilton, has
18-hole and 9-hole courses and a restaurant and clubhouse for members and their
guests. There is no waiting list for membership, according to Rob DeLuca, the
general manager.

Summer workshops for children are plentiful at the Silvermine Arts Center, as
are year-round classes for adults. The center's fifth-annual ArtsFest, on Sept.
20, will feature live music, exhibitions and hands-on art activities. The
Silvermine Market, across the street from the arts center, offers a variety of
breakfast and lunch options. After Labor Day, the restaurant will resume its
B.Y.O.B. dinners on Fridays and Saturdays.

NASH regularly sponsors historic house tours. The Silvermine Community
Association's annual potluck dinner for members is always a sellout at $20 a
ticket, according to Ms. Cruikshank.

Silvermine neighbors regularly gather for dinners and book clubs, according to
Ms. Names, who said she and her husband see some 20 couples on a regular basis,
a much bigger circle of friends than they had in the city.

The Schools

Silvermine Elementary, in Norwalk, is the only public school within Silvermine's
borders. The school, enrolling pupils from kindergarten through Grade 5, has
roughly 485 students from Silvermine and elsewhere in Norwalk, according to
Brenda Wilcox Williams, a district spokeswoman. About 60 percent of the students
are Hispanic. Students have the option of participating in Mano a Mano, a
dual-language English-Spanish immersion program.

Students in the Wilton and New Canaan portions of Silvermine attend public
schools in those towns.

The Commute

Most commuters in Silvermine use the South Norwalk Metro-North rail station, a
10- to 15-minute drive. A monthly parking permit at the station is $91. The trip
to Grand Central Terminal takes 60 to 70 minutes. A monthly pass purchased
online is $326.34. Driving to Midtown Manhattan can take an hour with luck, but
often longer, depending on traffic.

The History

Johnny Gruelle is said to have been inspired to create the yarn-haired Raggedy
Ann doll from an old rag doll he found in an attic while living in Silvermine.
An illustrator, Mr. Gruelle came up with the official Raggedy Ann prototype in
1915, and followed up with a series of stories. An exhibition celebrating the
100th anniversary of Raggedy Ann is currently on display at the Stepping Stones
Museum for Children in Norwalk.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/silvermine-conn-an-enclave-attached
-to-its-past.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A jogger passes behind the Silvermine Tavern complex
 the property, part of a historic district, is currently undergoing a makeover.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)  MAPS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); BUILDING
RENOVATION (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); ZONING (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%);
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION
(71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (69%); WEDDINGS &
ENGAGEMENTS (56%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Westchester

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 4262 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events in the Hudson Valley. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to westweek@nytimes.com

Comedy

PELHAM Rockwells Daniel Tirado, Sheba Mason and Adam Lucidi. Sept. 5 at 9 p.m.
$10. Rockwells, 105 Wolfs Lane. 914-738-5881; rockwellsusa.net.

PORT CHESTER The Capitol Theater ''Force Majeure World Tour,'' Eddie Izzard.
Aug. 31 at 8 p.m. $40 to $85. The Capitol Theater, 149 Westchester Avenue.
914-937-4126; thecapitoltheatre.com.

WEST NYACK Levity Live Corey Holcomb. Sept. 3 through 6. $22. Levity Live, 4210
Palisades Center Drive. 845-353-5400; levitylive.com.

Film

BREWSTER Village of Brewster Film Festival Films at Empire Cinemas, Ryder Farm
and Bull & Barrel Brewery in Southeast; Studio Around the Corner and Southeast
Museum in Brewster; and Chapel Restoration in Cold Spring. Sept. 3 through 6. $7
to $45. Some events are free. Village of Brewster Film Festival,
vobfilmfestival.com; 845-729-9687.

HUDSON Time & Space Limited A screening of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' (2014),
directed by Julie Taymor. Aug. 30 at 3 p.m. $7 to $12.50. ''The Outrageous
Sophie Tucker'' (2015), documentary by William Gazecki. Aug. 30 at 6:15 p.m. $6
and $8. Time & Space Limited, 434 Columbia Street. timeandspace.org;
518-822-8448.

PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center ''Sleeping With Other People'' (2015),
screening and discussion with the filmmaker Leslye Headland. Sept. 2 at 7:30
p.m. $10 and $15. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road.
burnsfilmcenter.org; 914-747-5555.

ROSENDALE Rosendale Theater ''Amy'' (2015), documentary by Asif Kapadia. Sept. 1
at 7:30 p.m. and Sept. 5 at 9:30 p.m. ''Trainwreck'' (2015), directed by Judd
Apatow. Sept. 4 through Sept. 10. $5 and $7. Rosendale Theater, 408 Main Street.
rosendaletheatre.org; 845-658-8989.

For Children

BRONX Wave Hill ''Family Art Project: Fishy Fun.'' Aug. 30, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
''Family Art Project: Mattiasdottir's Outdoor Painting.'' Sept. 5 and 6, 10 a.m.
to 1 p.m. Free with admission to the grounds. $2 to $8; members and children
under 6, free. Free for all until noon on Saturdays. Wave Hill, 675 West 252nd
Street. 718-549-3200; wavehill.org.

KATONAH Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts Grandparents and Grandchildren
Fête: ''The Story of Babar the Elephant'' by Francis Poulenc. Sept. 12 at 3 p.m.
$22.50 and $37. Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts, 149 Girdle Ridge Road.
914-232-1252; caramoor.org.

KATONAH Muscoot Farm ''Weather Folklore.'' Hear how farmers used to predict the
weather. Sept. 6, 1 to 3 p.m. Free. Muscoot Farm, 51 Route 100. 914-864-7282;
muscootfarm.org.

SLEEPY HOLLOW Philipsburg Manor ''CORNucopia.'' Food, games and activities.
Sept. 5 through 7, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. $12 to $16; members and children under 3,
free. Philipsburg Manor, 381 North Broadway. 914-366-6900; hudsonvalley.org.

TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall ''Annie Jr.,'' Random Farms Kids' Theater.
Through Aug. 31. $18 and $23. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street.
877-840-0457; tarrytownmusichall.org.

WHITE PLAINS Westchester County Center New York Metro Pet Reptile Expo. Sept. 6,
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. $5 and $10. Westchester County Center, 198 Central Avenue.
914-995-4050; countycenter.biz.

WOODSTOCK Woodstock Playhouse The Woodstock Magic Festival. Performances,
lectures and workshops. Through Aug. 30. $5 to $20. Woodstock Playhouse, Routes
212 and 375. 845-679-6900; woodstockplayhouse.org.

YONKERS Alamo Drafthouse Cinema ''Chicken Run'' (2000), animated film. Aug. 31
through Sept. 3. $1 to $3. Alamo Drafthouse Cinema, 2548 Central Park Avenue.
914-226-3082; drafthouse.com/yonkers.

Music and Dance

BETHEL Bethel Woods Center for the Arts Rascal Flatts, Scotty McCreery and
Raelynn, country. Aug. 30 at 7:30 p.m. $38.50 and $103.50. Chicago, with Earth,
Wind and Fire, rock and R&B. Sept. 1 at 7:30 p.m. $37.50 to $129. Van Halen and
the Kenny Wayne Shepherd Band, rock. Sept. 6 at 7:30 p.m. $43.50 to $166.50.
Bethel Woods Center for the Arts, 200 Hurd Road. bethelwoodscenter.org;
866-781-2922.

BRONX Bartow-Pell Mansion Museum Mary Courtney, Irish folk. Sept. 4, 5:30 to
8:30 p.m. $8 and $10; members, free. Bartow-Pell Mansion Museum, 895 Shore Road.
718-885-1461; bpmm.org.

HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON Purpl Shawn Colvin, folk and rock. Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. $49.
Purpl, 52 Main Street. 914-231-9077; purpl.org.

KATONAH Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts ''Flamenco in the Courtyard,''
classical and folk. Sept. 9 at 11 a.m. $22.50. Meal and concert is $52.50.
Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts, 149 Girdle Ridge Road. 914-232-1252;
caramoor.org.

MARLBORO The Falcon Alexis Cole, jazz. Aug. 30, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The Moutin
Factory Quintet, jazz. Sept. 3 at 7 p.m. Shayna Steele, blues and jazz. Sept. 4
at 7 p.m. Tal National, world music. Sept. 5 at 7 p.m. Saints of Swing, jazz.
Sept. 6, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Impetus, jazz. Sept. 6 at 7 p.m. Donations accepted.
The Falcon, 1348 Route 9W. 845-236-7970; liveatthefalcon.com.

PAWLING Daryl's House Funky Dawgz Brass Band, funk. Aug. 30 at 2 p.m. No cover.
Howard Jones, pop. Aug. 30 at 8 p.m. $35 and $50. Delta Rae, alternative pop.
Sept. 2 at 8 p.m. $20 and $35. Kitty, Daisy and Lewis, R&B. Sept. 3 at 8 p.m.
$15 and $20. The Fixx, rock and new wave. Sept. 4 at 8 p.m. $35 and $45. Eilen
Jewell Band, country. Sept. 5 at 8 p.m. $15 and $25. The Bruce Katz Band, blues.
Sept. 6 at 7 p.m. $15 and $20. Daryl's House, 130 Route 22. 845-289-0185;
darylshouseclub.com.

PEEKSKILL 12 Grapes Music and Wine Bar Ryan O'Connor, pop and rock. Sept. 2 at 8
p.m. No cover. Open Mike Night, hosted by Jess Erick. Sept. 3 at 8:30 p.m. No
cover. Valerie, R&B. Sept. 4 at 9:30 p.m. $10. Class Action, rock. Sept. 5 at
9:30 p.m. $5 and $10. 12 Grapes Music and Wine Bar, 12 North Division Street.
914-737-6624; 12grapes.com.

PIERMONT Piermont Pier Turning Point/PAL American Roots Music Festival, Big Jim
Wheeler and His Band in Black, the Peach Project, Reflections Band and the The
Band Band. Sept. 7, noon to 6 p.m. $20. Piermont Pier, Goswick Pavilion Ferry
Road. 845-359-1089; turningpointcafe.com.

PORT CHESTER The Capitol Theater Karl Denson's Tiny Universe, jazz and funk.
Sept. 11 at 8 p.m. $30 to $50. Little Feat, rock. Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. $35 to $65.
The Capitol Theater, 149 Westchester Avenue. 914-937-4126;
thecapitoltheatre.com.

SUGAR LOAF The Sugar Loaf Performing Arts Center Wallace Roney, Lenny White and
Eric Person, jazz. Aug. 30 at 8 p.m. $20. The Sugar Loaf Performing Arts Center,
135 Kings Highway. hudsonvalleyjazzfest.org; 917-903-4380.

WOODSTOCK Bearsville Theater From Good Homes, rock. Sept. 4 at 9 p.m. $27. The
Antlers, blues and jazz. Sept. 5 at 9 p.m. $18. Bearsville Theater, 291 Tinker
Street. bearsvilletheater.com; 845-679-4406.

WOODSTOCK Maverick Concert Hall Borromeo String Quartet, classical. Aug. 30 at 4
p.m. $25 and $40. Happy Traum, with John Sebastian, Zach Djanikian and Cindy
Cashdollar, folk and blues. Sept. 5 at 8 p.m. $25 and $40. Dover Quartet,
classical. Sept. 6 at 4 p.m. $50. Maverick Concert Hall, 120 Maverick Road.
845-679-8217; maverickconcerts.org.

Outdoors

BETHEL Bethel Woods Center for the Arts The Harvest Festival, farmers market,
craft village, live performances, corn and hay mazes, and pony rides. Aug. 30
and Sept. 6 at 11 a.m. Admission is free. Parking is $2. Bethel Woods Center for
the Arts, 200 Hurd Road. bethelwoodscenter.org; 866-781-2922.

BRONX Wave Hill Garden Highlights Walk, tour of seasonal highlights. Sept. 6 and
7 at 2 p.m. and Sept. 8 at 11 a.m. Free with admission to the grounds. $2 to $8;
members and children under 6, free. Free for all until noon on Saturdays and
Tuesdays. Wave Hill, 675 West 252nd Street. 718-549-3200; wavehill.org.

KATONAH Muscoot Farm Muscoot's 40th Birthday, games, hayrides, face painting,
crafts and cake. Aug. 30, noon to 3 p.m. Free. Friction Fire Workshop. Ages 14
and up. Bring lunch. Wear clothes that can get dirty. Sept. 6, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
$40. Muscoot Farm, 51 Route 100. 914-864-7282; muscootfarm.org.

OSSINING Teatown Lake Reservation Teatown Bird Walk, guided hike. Sept. 5 at 8
a.m. Free. Daily, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Teatown Lake Reservation, 1600 Spring Valley
Road. 914-762-2912; teatown.org.

YONKERS Untermyer Gardens Conservancy Tours of the Persian garden and estate
restoration. Aug. 30 and Sept. 13 at 11 a.m. Sept. 6, 20 and 27 at 4 p.m. $10.
Chairman's tour is $20 on Sept. 20. Untermyer Gardens Conservancy, 945 North
Broadway. 914-512-0436; untermyergardens.org.

Spoken Word

BEACON Mount Gulian Historic Site ''James F. Brown Day: From Slave to Mr.
Brown,'' gospel performances and discussions. Sept. 5, noon to 5 p.m. $4 to $12;
members and children under 6, free. Mount Gulian Historic Site, 145 Sterling
Street. mountgulian.org; 845-831-8172.

BRONX Bronx Museum of the Arts ''Art in the Bronx,'' discussion with Laura
Napier, Hatuey Ramos-Fermín, Tracie Hervy and Christine Licata. Sept. 3, 6:30 to
9 p.m. Donations accepted. Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse.
718-681-6000; bronxmuseum.org.

MOUNT VERNON St. Paul's Church ''Soul Effigies on Colonial Gravestones:
Religious Symbolism, or Reflections of Fashion and Status?'' Lecture. Sept. 3 at
7 p.m. Free. St. Paul's Church, 897 South Columbus Avenue. 914-667-4116;
nps.gov/sapa.

NYACK Edward Hopper House Art Center ''George Way: A Lifetime of Collecting
Dutch Art,'' lecture. Sept. 4 at 7 p.m. Free. Edward Hopper House Art Center, 82
North Broadway. 845-358-0774; edwardhopperhouse.org.

PURCHASE Neuberger Museum of Art of Purchase College ''How Artists Respond to
Trauma and Urban Violence,'' panel discussion. Sept. 2 at 12:30 p.m. $10.
Neuberger Museum of Art of Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road.
www.neuberger.org; 914-251-6100.

SLEEPY HOLLOW Hudson Valley Writers' Center ''Women Reading Women,'' Jacqueline
Tchakalian, Marion Brown and Francesca Maxime. Sept. 11 at 7:30 p.m. $10. Hudson
Valley Writers' Center, 300 Riverside Drive. writerscenter.org; 914-332-5953.

TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall ''Presently in the Past: The Great Estates of
Tarrytown,'' lecture by Paul Barrett. Sept. 2 at 7 p.m. Free. Tarrytown Music
Hall, 13 Main Street. tarrytownmusichall.org; 877-840-0457.

Theater

ELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater ''Backwards in High Heels,'' musical by
Lynette Barkley and Christopher McGovern. Through Sept. 20. $54 to $84 for meal
and show. Westchester Broadway Theater, 1 Broadway Plaza. 914-592-2222;
broadwaytheatre.com.

GARRISON The Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival: ''The Arabian Nights,'' adapted
by Mary Zimmerman. Aug. 30 at 7:30 p.m. ''The Tempest,'' by Shakespeare. Aug. 31
and Sept. 1 at 7:30 p.m. $20 to $73. Boscobel House and Gardens, 1601 Route 9D.
hvshakespeare.org; 845-265-9575.

GARRISON Saunders Farm ''Performance Art on the Farm: Something for Everyone!''
Marcy B. Freedman. Sept. 5, 2 to 6 p.m. Free. Daily, 10 a.m. to dusk. Saunders
Farm, 853 Old Albany Post Road. collaborativeconcepts.org; 845-528-1797.

GARRISON The Philipstown Depot Theater Aery Theater Company's 20/20 One-Act Play
Competition. Sept. 11 through 20. $12 and $15. The Philipstown Depot Theater, 10
Garrison Landing. 845-424-3900; philipstowndepottheatre.org.

PEEKSKILL Paramount Hudson Valley ''The Tempest,'' Hudson Valley Shakespeare
Festival's Conservatory Company. Sept. 6 at 3 p.m. $25 and $30. Paramount Hudson
Valley, 1008 Brown Street. 914-739-0039; paramounthudsonvalley.com.

STONY POINT Penguin Rep Theater ''Becoming Dr. Ruth,'' comedy by Mark St.
Germain. Through Sept. 6. $40. Penguin Rep Theater, 7 Crickettown Road.
845-786-2873; penguinrep.org.

WHITE PLAINS White Plains Performing Arts Center ''Closer Than Ever,'' musical
revue by Richard Maltby, Jr. and David Shire. Sept. 11 and 12 at 8 p.m. and
Sept. 13 at 2 p.m. $25 and $30. White Plains Performing Arts Center, 11 City
Place. 914-328-1600; wppac.com.

Museums and Galleries

BEACON Beacon ''Beacon 3-D,'' outdoor public art exhibition. Through Oct. 15.
Dawn to dusk. Beacon, various locations on Main Street. beacon3d.org;
917-318-2239.

BEACON Howland Public Library ''Beacon Lens,'' Beacon Photographers group show.
Through Sept. 6. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.;
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.;
Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Howland Public Library, 313 Main Street. 845-831-1134;
beaconlibrary.org.

BEACON Matteawan Gallery ''Deconstruct,'' group show. Through Aug. 30. Saturdays
and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Matteawan Gallery, 464 Main Street. 845-440-7901;
matteawan.com.

BEACON Mount Gulian Historic Site Tours of the home, Dutch barn and restored
garden. Sundays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, 1 to 5 p.m. through Oct. 25.
$4 to $8; members, free. Mount Gulian Historic Site, 145 Sterling Street.
mountgulian.org; 845-831-8172.

BEACON RiverWinds Gallery ''Selected Breed,'' oil paintings by Mary Smoot
Souter. Through Sept. 6. Wednesdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m.; second
Saturdays, noon to 9 p.m. RiverWinds Gallery, 172 Main Street. 845-838-2880;
riverwindsgallery.com.

BETHEL Bethel Woods Center for the Arts ''Written in Stone,'' sculptures by
Harry Gordon. Through Oct. 12. ''Threads: Connecting '60s and Modern Rockwear,''
from the collection of Andy Hilfiger. Through Dec. 31. $6 to $15; children under
3, free. Daily, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. through Sept. 7. Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.,
Sept. 8 to Oct. 12. Bethel Woods Center for the Arts, 200 Hurd Road.
866-781-2922; bethelwoodscenter.org.

BRONX Bronx Museum of the Arts ''Bronx Calling: The Third AIM Biennial,'' group
show. Through Sept. 20. Thursdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays,
11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse. 718-681-6000;
bronxmuseum.org.

BRONX The New York Botanical Garden ''Frida Kahlo: Art, Garden, Life,''
paintings, works on paper and a garden. Through Nov. 1. $10 to $25; children
under 2, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The New York
Botanical Garden, Southern Boulevard. 718-817-8700; nybg.org.

COLD SPRING Buster Levi Gallery Works by Grace Knowlton, Barbara Smith Gioia and
Maria Pia Marrella. Through Aug. 30. Fridays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.;
and by appointment. Buster Levi Gallery, 121 Main Street. 845-809-5810;
busterlevigallery.com.

COLD SPRING Gallery 66NY ''Francesco Mastalia: Organic'' and ''Wilfredo Morel:
Farm Art.'' Through Aug. 30. ''Passing Storms'' and ''The Evolution of Shape,''
works by Rick Thurston, Gregory Martin, Cindy Booth and Carol Flaitz. Sept. 4
through 27. Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; and by appointment.
Gallery 66NY, 66 Main Street. 845-809-5838; gallery66ny.com.

GARRISON Manitoga/The Russel Wright Design Center House, studio and landscape
tours. Through Nov. 9. $10 to $20. Manitoga/The Russel Wright Design Center, 584
Route 9D. 845-424-3812; russelwrightcenter.org.

GARRISON Saunders Farm ''Collaborative Concepts: Farm Project 2015,'' group
sculpture show on a working farm. Sept. 5 through Oct. 31. Daily, 10 a.m. to
dusk. Saunders Farm, 853 Old Albany Post Road. collaborativeconcepts.org;
845-528-1797.

GHENT Omi International Arts Center ''The Crayon Miscellany,'' group show.
Through Sept. 27. Daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Omi International Arts Center, 1405
County Route 22. 518-392-4747; artomi.org.

GREENBURGH Madeleine Gutman Gallery ''Captivation Through Visual Inspiration,''
photographs by Monica Marrow. Through Sept. 15. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m. Madeleine Gutman Gallery, 177 Hillside Avenue. 914-682-1574;
greenburghartsandculture.org;

HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON Upstream Gallery ''Points of View From the Circle,'' Red
Circle Photo Arts Collective. Through Aug. 30. Thursdays through Sundays, 12:30
to 5:30 p.m. Upstream Gallery, 8 Main Street. upstreamgallery.com; 914-674-8548.

HUDSON 510 Warren Street Gallery ''Sea, Sky and Shore,'' paintings by Eleanor
Lord. Through Aug. 30. ''Road Less Traveled,'' landscapes by Doris Simon. Sept.
4 through 27. Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. 510
Warren Street Gallery, 510 Warren Street. 510warrenstgallery.com; 518-822-0510.

HUDSON BCB Art ''The M. Van Dyke Group: Monoprints of the 1980s.'' Through Sept.
13. Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; and by appointment. BCB Art, 116
Warren Street. 518-828-4539; bcbart.com.

HUDSON Carrie Haddad Gallery ''Paper,'' group show. Through Oct. 4. Mondays
through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Carrie Haddad
Gallery, 622 Warren Street. 518-828-1915; carriehaddadgallery.com.

HUDSON Jeff Bailey Gallery ''Joshua Marsh: Drawings'' and ''Michael Berryhill:
Shrine Time.'' Through Aug. 30. Fridays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; and by
appointment. Jeff Bailey Gallery, 127 Warren Street. baileygallery.com;
518-828-6680.

HUDSON John Davis Gallery Works by William Ransom. Through Sept. 13. Thursdays
through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and by appointment. John Davis Gallery, 362
1/2 Warren Street. 518-828-5907; johndavisgallery.com.

HYDE PARK The Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum ''The Spirit
of the Gift: Gifts of State and Affection.'' Through Dec. 31. $6 and $9;
children under 15, free. Daily, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. through Oct. 31. The Franklin
D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum, 4079 Albany Post Road.
845-486-7745; fdrlibrary.marist.edu.

KATONAH Katonah Museum of Art ''Emilie Clark: The Delicacy of Decomposition.''
Through Sept. 6. ''Inside the Outside: Five Self-Taught Artists From the William
Louis-Dreyfus Foundation.'' ''Barnes Private Residence, 1952, Relocated, 2015.''
Through Oct. 11. $5 and $10; members and children under 12, free. Tuesdays
through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Katonah Museum of
Art, 134 Jay Street. katonahmuseum.org; 914-232-9555.

KINGSTON One Mile Gallery Works by Mary Hattman. Sept. 5 through 26. Saturdays,
noon to 5 p.m.; and by appointment. One Mile Gallery, 475 Abeel Street.
845-338-2035; onemilegallery.com.

LARCHMONT Kenise Barnes Fine Art ''Cool and Collected '15,'' group show. Through
Sept. 10. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; and by appointment.
Kenise Barnes Fine Art, 1947 Palmer Avenue. 914-834-8077; kbfa.com.

LARCHMONT Mamaroneck Artists Guild ''Windows Doors Walls Fences,'' sumi ink
paintings by Jim Maciel. Sept. 1 through 26. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to
5 p.m.; and by appointment. Mamaroneck Artists Guild, 126 Larchmont Avenue.
mamaroneckartistsguild.org; 914-834-1117.

MAHOPAC A. Eric Arctander Gallery, Putnam Arts Council ''Works on Paper,'' group
show. Through Aug. 30. Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays
and Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. A. Eric Arctander Gallery, Putnam Arts Council, 521
Kennicut Hill Road. 845-803-8594; putnamartscouncil.com.

MAMARONECK Bullseye New York Gallery ''Dark Ecologies,'' group show. Through
Nov. 14. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Bullseye New York Gallery, 115 Hoyt Avenue. bullseyeglass.com;
914-835-3794.

MOUNTAINVILLE Storm King Art Center ''Lynda Benglis: Water Sources,''
large-scale sculptures. Through Nov. 8. ''Outlooks: Luke Stettner,''
site-specific outdoor installation. Through Nov. 29. $8 to $12; members and
children under 5, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Storm
King Art Center, Old Pleasant Hill Road. 845-534-3115; stormkingartcenter.org.

NEW PALTZ Samuel Dorsky Museum of Art, at the State University of New York at
New Paltz ''The Stories We Tell: Hudson Valley Artists 2015,'' group show.
Through Nov. 8. ''Jervis McEntee: Painter-Poet of the Hudson River School.''
''Reading Objects 2015,'' selections from the permanent collection. ''Thomas
Benjamin Pope: Landscapes of Newburgh and Beyond.'' Through Dec. 13. Suggested
donation, $5. Wednesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Samuel Dorsky Museum
of Art, at the State University of New York at New Paltz, 1 Hawk Drive.
newpaltz.edu/museum; 845-257-3844.

NYACK Edward Hopper House Art Center ''Behind Doors and Through Windows:
Reflections on Contemporary Domestic Life,'' group show. Through Oct. 18. $2 to
$7; members and children under 16, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5
p.m.; and by appointment. Edward Hopper House Art Center, 82 North Broadway.
edwardhopperhouse.org; 845-358-0774.

OLANA Olana State Historic Site ''River Crossings: Contemporary Art Comes
Home,'' group show. Also on display at the Thomas Cole National Historic Site in
Catskill. Through Nov. 1. $10 and $12; children under 12, free. Children under
16 admitted free at Thomas Cole. Olana State Historic Site, 5720 State Route 9G.
rivercrossings.org.

OSSINING Ossining Public Library Photographs by Anastasia Tompkins. Sept. 1
through 29. Monday and Thursday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Tuesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m.
to 6 p.m.; Wednesdays, 1 to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Ossining Public
Library, 53 Croton Avenue. 914-941-2416; ossininglibrary.org.

PEEKSKILL Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art ''Love: The First of the 7
Virtues,'' group show. ''Leviticus,'' installation by Hermann Nitsch. Through
Dec. 6. $2 to $5; members and children under 8, free. Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5
p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; and by appointment. Hudson Valley
Center for Contemporary Art, 1701 Main Street. 914-788-0100; hvcca.org.

PELHAM Pelham Art Center ''Knit Knit Bomb Bomb,'' outdoor yarn installation.
Through Aug. 31. ''The Only Home We Have,'' group show. Sept. 11 through Oct.
24. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Pelham Art Center, 155 Fifth Avenue. 914-738-2525; pelhamartcenter.org.

PORT CHESTER Clay Art Center ''There's No Such Thing as the Future,'' Kelley
Donahue. Through Sept. 10. ''Tristate of Mind,'' group show. Through Sept. 16.
Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; and by appointment. Clay Art
Center, 40 Beech Street. 914-937-2047; clayartcenter.org.

PORT EWEN Duck Pond Gallery, at Town of Esopus Library Watercolors by Alan
McKnight. Sept. 5 through 26. Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5:30
p.m.; Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 10
a.m. to 4 p.m. Duck Pond Gallery, at Town of Esopus Library, 128 Canal Street.
845-338-5580; esopuslibrary.org.

POUGHKEEPSIE The Franklin Delano Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge ''Bridge Music,''
sound installation by Joseph Bertolozzi. Through Oct. 31. Dawn to dusk. The
Franklin Delano Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge, josephbertolozzi.com.

POUGHKEEPSIE Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center ''Punctuating Space:
The Prints and Multiples of Richard Artschwager.'' Through Sept. 6. Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9
p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, 124
Raymond Avenue. 845-437-5632; fllac.vassar.edu.

POUND RIDGE Pound Ridge Public Library ''SheilArt,'' works by Sheila Mancini.
Aug. 29 through Oct. 10. Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Wednesdays,
Fridays and Saturdays; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Pound Ridge
Public Library, 271 Westchester Avenue. poundridgelibrary.org; 914-764-5085.

PURCHASE Neuberger Museum of Art of Purchase College ''Gold,'' group show.
''Teresa Margolles: We Have a Common Thread.'' Through Oct. 11. $3 and $5;
members and children 12 and under, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5
p.m. Neuberger Museum of Art of Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road.
914-251-6100; www.neuberger.org.

RHINEBECK Montgomery Row Second Level ''Photographic Solarizations,''
photographs by William Lulow. Through Sept. 30. Daily, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Montgomery Row Second Level, 6423 Montgomery Street. 845-876-0543;
montgomeryrow.com.

TIVOLI Tivoli Artists Gallery ''Small Works Show,'' group exhibition. Through
Sept. 20. Fridays, 5 to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 1 to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.;
and by appointment. Tivoli Artists Gallery, 60 Broadway.
tivoliartistsgallery.com; 845-757-2667.

WASSAIC The Wassaic Project, Maxon Mills ''Deep End,'' group show. Through Sept.
20. Fridays, 5 to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 7 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The
Wassaic Project, Maxon Mills, 37 Furnace Bank Road. wassaicproject.org;
347-815-0783.

WHITE PLAINS ArtsWestchester ''Vision 2015: Inspirations, Reflections and
Hope,'' group show. Sept. 10 through 17, noon to 5 p.m. Tuesdays through
Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m. ArtsWestchester, 31
Mamaroneck Avenue. artswestchester.org; 914-428-4220.

WOODSTOCK Byrdcliffe Kleinert/James Center for the Arts ''Hand/Made: The Digital
Age and the Industrial Revolution,'' group show. Sept. 4 through Oct. 18.
Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; and by appointment. Byrdcliffe
Kleinert/James Center for the Arts, 36 Tinker Street. 845-679-2079;
woodstockguild.org.

YONKERS Blue Door Gallery ''The Art of Healing,'' group show. Through Sept. 5.
Thursdays and Fridays, 3 to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Blue Door Gallery,
13 Riverdale Avenue. 914-375-5100; bluedoorartcenter.org.

YONKERS Hudson River Museum ''Envy: One Sin, Seven Stories,'' installation by
Adrien Broom. ''Carla Gannis: The Garden of Emoji Delights.'' Through Sept. 26.
$3 to $6; members, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Hudson River
Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. 914-963-4550; hrm.org.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/things-to-do-in-the-hudson-valley-aug
-30-to-sept-6-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KINGSTON: ''End of Day Gelato'' (2015) is in ''Sites and
Sights,'' an exhibition of altered photographs by Arlene Becker, from Sept. 1
through Nov. 29 at the Hudson Valley LGBTQ Community Center, 300 Wall Street.
For further information: 845-331- 5300 or lgbtqcenter.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARLENE
BECKER) (WE8)
 ROSENDALE: ''Testament of Youth'' (2014), starring Alicia Vikander and Kit
Harington, will be shown through Sept. 3 at the Rosendale Theater, 408 Main
Street. Tickets are $5 and $7. For further information: 845-658-8989 or
rosendaletheatre.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURIE SPARHAM/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)
(WE9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); FESTIVALS (89%);
FILM DIRECTORS (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS
(76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); FILM FESTIVALS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%);
GRANDCHILDREN (65%); GRANDPARENTS (60%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Long Island

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3054 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events on Long Island. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to lical@nytimes.com

Comedy

SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater All-Star Comedy Show, hosted by Joseph Vecsey.
Sept. 11 at 8 p.m. $25. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. baystreet.org;
631-725-9500.

Film

HUNTINGTON Cinema Arts Center ''School of Babel'' (2013), directed by Julie
Bertuccelli. Sept. 1 at 7:30 p.m. $5 to $12. National Theater Live presents
''The Beaux' Stratagem,'' comedy by George Farquhar. Sept. 3 at 2 p.m. $20 and
$25. Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue. cinemaartscentre.org; 631-423-7611.

PATCHOGUE The Plaza Cinema and Media Arts Center ''King Lear, Stage in Cinema,''
film of the Shakespeare tragedy performed at the Stratford Festival in England.
Sept. 5, 10:30 a.m.; Sept 10, 6:30 p.m. $15; $12, students; $11, members. The
Plaza Cinema and Media Arts Center, 20 Terry Street. plazamac.org; 631-438-0083.

ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''Edgar Degas: Of Dandies, Ballerinas,
and Women Ironing,'' half-hour documentary. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m.,
noon, 1 p.m. and 3 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. and noon. Through Nov. 8. Nassau
County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. nassaumuseum.org; 516-484-9337.

SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Cultural Center Southampton Jewish Film Festival.
Sundays through Sept. 6 at 7:30 p.m. $15. Southampton Cultural Center, 25 Pond
Lane. 631-287-4377; scc-arts.org.

For Children

GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum ''Autumn Apple Trees,'' create a
miniature tree. Sept. 1 through 4, 2:30 to 4 p.m. Free with museum admission,
$11 and $12. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. 516-224-5800;
licm.org.

SYOSSET Syosset Public Library Exhibition of children's illustrations by Deborah
Cuneo. Sept. 4 through 27. Syosset Public Library, 225 South Oyster Bay Road.
516-921-7161; syossetlibrary.org.

Music and Dance

EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall Spin Doctors, rock. Sept. 5 at 8 p.m. $38 to $150. The
Hit Men, with former members of Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons. Sept. 6 at 7
and 9:30 p.m. $38 to $75. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. 631-324-4050;
guildhall.org.

EAST MEADOW Holy Trinity Orthodox Church Summer Festival, live Slavic music by
Barynya; bouncy castles and children's games Chinese auction; flea market and
more. Sept. 5, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Holy Trinity Orthodox Church, 369 Green Avenue.
htocem.org; 516-483-3649.

FREEPORT Freeport High School The Boys & Girls Choir of Harlem Alumni Ensemble,
directed by Anthony Morgan. Sept. 5, 8 to 10 p.m. $20. Freeport High School, 50
South Brookside Avenue. freeportconcertassociation.com; 516-223-7659.

GARDEN CITY Adelphi University Performing Arts Center ''Baths of Caracalla: The
Three Tenors Concert,'' concert film of Luciano Pavarotti, PlácidoDomingo and
José Carreras in 1990. Sept. 12 at 2 p.m. $20. Adelphi University Performing
Arts Center, 1 South Avenue. aupac.adelphi.edu; 516-877-4000.

HEMPSTEAD Guthart Cultural Center Theater, Joan and Donald E. Axinn Library
''Feis Dress: The History of Irish Dance Costumes,'' Hofstra University's Irish
Studies Department. Sept. 10, 6 to 7:30 p.m. Free. Guthart Cultural Center
Theater, Joan and Donald E. Axinn Library, Hofstra University, South Campus.
hofstra.edu; 516-463-6644.

HUNTINGTON The Paramount ''Catch a Fire Tour 2015,'' reggae, Damian Marley,
Stephen Marley, Morgan Heritage, Tarrus Riley and others. Sept. 1 at 8 p.m. $30
to $45. The Jacksons, R&B. Sept. 3 at 8 p.m. $25 to $89.50. Billy Bob Thorton
and the Boxmasters, country rock. Sept. 6 at 8 p.m. $25 to $50. ''Donny Osmond:
The Soundtrack of My Life Tour,'' pop. Sept. 10 at 8 p.m. $59.50 to $119.50. The
Paramount, 370 New York Avenue. 631-673-7300; paramountny.com.

LONG BEACH Long Beach Public Library ''Stan Wiest Piano Concert and Great
American Songbook Singalong,'' Stan Wiest plays the piano, tells anecdotes and
leads a singalong. Sept. 13, 1:30 to 3 p.m. Free. Long Beach Public Library, 111
West Park Avenue. 516-432-7201; nassaulibrary.org/longbeach.

PORT WASHINGTON Landmark on Main Street Warren Schein performs ''The American
Songbook.'' Sept. 9 at 2 p.m. Free. Landmark on Main Street, 232 Main Street.
516-767-6444; landmarkonmainstreet.org.

QUOGUE Hampton Theater Company, Quogue Community Hall Quogue Chamber Music,
Cavani String Quartet and the clarinetist Daniel Gilbert, works by Mozart,
Dvorak and Debussy. Sept. 12 at 7:30 p.m. $5 and $40. Hampton Theater Company,
Quogue Community Hall, 125 Jessup Avenue. 631-728-3407; quoguechambermusic.com.

ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art Joe Dubs and the Jazz Connection,
museum's house band. Aug. 30 at 3 p.m. Free with museum admission, $4 to $10.
Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. nassaumuseum.org; 516-484-9337.
SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Cultural Center ''It's A Good Day: A Tribute to Ms.
Peggy Lee,'' cabaret with Stacy Sullivan. Sept. 12 at 7 p.m. $35 to $45.
Southampton Cultural Center, 25 Pond Lane. 631- 287-4377; scc-arts.org.

WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center The Bronx Wanderers,
rock. Aug. 30 at 8 p.m. $33 and $53. Keb' Mo', blues. Sept. 4 at 8 p.m. $73 to
$103. John Hiatt, rock. Sept. 6 at 8 p.m. $60 to $100. Westhampton Beach
Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. 631-288-1500; whbpac.org.

Outdoors

EAST MEADOW Eisenhower Park Fourth Annual Children's Walk Against Brain Tumors
and Brain Cancer, sponsored by Children's Brain Tumor Foundation. Sept. 13 at 10
a.m. $10. Eisenhower Park, 1899 Hempstead Turnpike. 212-448-9494;
firstgiving.com.

HUNTINGTON Heckscher Park Kiss Cancer Goodbye Walk, fund-raising event for Kids
Need More, which helps children and families coping with life-threatening
illnesses. Sept. 12, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. $20; includes T-shirt. Heckscher Park, 64
Main Street, corner 24A and Prime Avenue. drgellerman.com; 631-427-8444.

ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''Bird Watching for Beginners,''
Rebecca Oyer of the Theodore Roosevelt Sanctuary and Audubon Center leads an
observation of birds on the museum property. Sept. 9 at 9 a.m. $10; reservations
required. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. 516-484-9337;
nassaumuseum.org.

Spoken Word

HUNTINGTON Library at Seminary of the Immaculate Conception Elizabeth Scalia,
author and blogger, discussing her book ''Strange Gods: Unmasking the Idols in
Everyday Life.'' Sept. 13 at 2 p.m. Free. Library at Seminary of the Immaculate
Conception, 440 West Neck Road. icseminary.edu/library; 631-423-0483, ext. 141.

LAWRENCE Peninsula Public Library ''Culture & Continuity: The Jewish Museum,''
illustrated lecture focused on works by Marc Chagall, Thomas Sully, James Tissot
and others. Sept. 3 at 1 p.m. Free. Peninsula Public Library, 280 Central
Avenue. nassaulibrary.org/peninsula; 516-239-3262.

Theater

BELLPORT Gateway Playhouse ''Saturday Night Fever,'' musical. Through Sept. 12.
$54 to $89. Gateway Playhouse, 215 South Country Road. gatewayplayhouse.com;
631-286-1133.

LINDENHURST Studio Theater ''Lie of Omission,'' drama by Cheryl Navo. Sept. 4
through 20. $25. Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. 631-226-8400;
studiotheatreli.com.

NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater at Northport ''The Cottage,'' comedy by Sandy
Rustin. Through Sept. 6. $59 and $64. John W. Engeman Theater at Northport, 250
Main Street. 631-261-2900; engemantheater.com.

SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater ''Grey Gardens,'' musical with book by Doug
Wright, music by Scott Frankel and lyrics by Michael Korie. Through Aug. 30.
$62.55 to $85. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. baystreet.org;
631-725-9500.

SMITHTOWN Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts ''West Side Story,'' musical
by Leonard Bernstein, Stephen Sondheim and Arthur Laurents. Through Aug. 30.
$35. ''Arsenic and Old Lace,'' by Joseph Kesserling. Sept. 12 through Oct. 4.
$35. Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts, 2 East Main Street. 631-724-3700;
smithtownpac.org.

Museums and Galleries

BELLPORT Gallery 125 ''Arthur Pinajian (1914-1999), a Survey Exhibition.''
Through Sept. 6. Fridays, 4 to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Gallery 125,
125 South Country Road. gallery125.org; 631-880-2693.

BRIDGEHAMPTON Silas Marder Gallery Recent work by Mica Marder, including
drawings, paintings and sculpture. Sept. 5 through Oct. 17. Reception: Sept. 5,
4 to 8 p.m. Thursdays through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Silas Marder Gallery,
120 Snake Hollow Road. 631-702-2306; silasmarder.com.

BRIDGEHAMPTON The Design Studio ''Upcycle,'' artwork from recycled materials.
Through Sept. 15. Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays and
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Design Studio,
2393 Main Street. elisacontemporaryart.com.

COLD SPRING HARBOR Cold Spring Harbor Whaling Museum ''Sea Ink: American Sailors
and Tattoo Art,'' antique tattoo machines, inking tools and information about
the origins of nautical tattoos. Through Aug. 31. $5 to $6; members and children
under 5, free. Daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Cold Spring Harbor Whaling Museum, 301
Main Street. cshwhalingmuseum.org; 631-367-3418.

CUTCHOGUE Alex Ferrone Photography Gallery ''Calm Before the Storm,''
photographic works by Christine Matthäi. Sept. 5 through 27. Alex Ferrone
Photography Gallery, 25425 Main Road. 631-734-8545; alexferrone.com.

EAST HAMPTON Eric Firestone Gallery ''All Killer No Filler,'' works by 11
artists. Through Sept. 6. Sundays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays
and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Eric Firestone Gallery, 4 Newtown Lane.
631-604-2386; ericfirestonegallery.com.

EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall ''Roy Lichtenstein: Between Sea and Sky,'' contemporary
works. Through Oct. 12. Suggested donation: $7. Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m.
to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. 631-324-4050;
guildhall.org.

EAST HAMPTON Haute Hippie East Hampton ''Summertime Salon,'' group show. Through
Sept. 6. Sundays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to Saturdays,
10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Haute Hippie East Hampton, 20 Newtown Lane. 212-239-6825.

EAST ISLIP Islip Art Museum ''IAM Pocket Sized,'' group show. Through Sept. 13.
Suggested donation, $5. Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.;
Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Islip Art Museum, 50 Irish Lane. 631-224-5402;
islipartmuseum.org.

GARDEN CITY  Ruth S. Harley University Center Gallery, Adelphi University
Paintings by Richmond Lewis. Through Sept. 22. Reception, Sept. 15, 5 to 7 p.m.
Mondays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5
p.m. Ruth S. Harley University Center Gallery, Adelphi University, 1 South
Avenue. 516-877-3126; adelphi.edu/artmuseum.

GLEN COVE Holocaust Memorial and Tolerance Center ''Scenes of Horror: A Photo
History of the Armenian Genocide,'' film, text and photos. Through Sept. 30.
Suggested donation, $10. Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, noon to 4 p.m. Holocaust Memorial and Tolerance
Center, 100 Crescent Beach Road. 516-571-8040; holocaust-nassau.org.

HEMPSTEAD Hofstra University Museum ''Enduring Images,'' works from the museum's
collection related to historic events. Through Jan. 31. Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hofstra University Museum, Hofstra University.
516-463-5672; hofstra.edu/museum.

HOLBROOK Sachem Public Library ''Chasing Jazz: The Art of Vincent James
Quatroche.'' Sept. 1 through 30. Sachem Public Library, 150 Holbrook Road.
631-588-5024; sachemlibrary.org.

HUNTINGTON Fotofoto Gallery ''What Lies Beneath,'' works by Patricia Colombraro.
Sep. 2 through 26. Reception: Sept. 12, 5 to 7 p.m. Wednesdays, Thursdays and
Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.
Fotofoto Gallery, 14 West Carver Street. fotofotogallery.org; 631-549-0448.

HUNTINGTON Heckscher Museum of Art ''James Rosenquist: Tripartite Prints.''
Through Nov. 22. ''Graphic Appeal: Modern Prints From the Collection.'' Through
Nov. 29. Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays,
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Heckscher Museum of Art, 2 Prime Avenue. 631-351-3250;
heckscher.org.

HUNTINGTON Ripe Art Gallery ''The Rights of Summer,'' juried photography
exhibition. Through Sept. 5. Tuesdays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.;
Fridays, 2 to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; or by appointment. Ripe Art
Gallery, 1028 Park Avenue. 631-239-1805; ripeartgal.com.

HUNTINGTON STATION  South Huntington Public Library Paintings by RJT Haynes.
Sept. 12 through Oct. 7. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, 9 a.m. to 9
p.m.; Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to
5 p.m. South Huntington Public Library, 145 Pidgeon Hill Road. 631-549-4411;
shpl.info.

JAMESPORT Jedediah Hawkins Inn Barn Gallery ''Rain or Shine,'' new paintings by
Max Moran. Through Sept. 20. Fridays, 5 to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 7
p.m. Jedediah Hawkins Inn Barn Gallery, 400 South Jamesport Avenue.
631-722-2900.

JAMESPORT Rosalie Dimon Gallery, Jamesport Manor Inn New paintings by Jerry
Schwabe and new photographs by Steven Schreiber. Through Oct. 28. Wednesdays
through Mondays, noon to 10 p.m. Rosalie Dimon Gallery, Jamesport Manor Inn, 370
Manor Road. jamesportmanorinn.com; 631-722-0500.

MANHASSET The Art Guild of Port Washington ''Internal Affair,'' works by
instructors, studio artists and board members of the Art Guild of Port
Washington. Through Aug. 30. The Art Guild at Elderfields, 200 Port Washington
Boulevard. 516-304-5797; theartguild.org.

OYSTER BAY Collector Car Showcase ''The American Hot Rod,'' exhibition. Through
Oct. 31. $5 to $10; free under 7. Collector Car Showcase, 85 Pine Hollow Road
(Route 106). collectorcs.com; 516-802-5297.

OYSTER BAY  Oyster Bay Historical Society ''Hats Off! An Assembly of
Extraordinary Headwear From the Society's Collection,'' 20th-century men's and
women's hats, athletic headgear and military helmets. Through Sept. 13. Tuesdays
through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to
4 p.m. Oyster Bay Historical Society, 20 Summit Street. 516-922-5032;
oysterbayhistorical.org.

QUOGUE Quogue Library Art Gallery ''Fulvio Massi: On the Wall,'' acrylic,
pastel, graphite and paper on canvas. Sep. 1 through 28. Sundays and Mondays,
noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Wednesdays, Fridays
and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Quogue Library Art Gallery, 90 Quogue Street.
quoguelibrary.org; 631-653-4224.

REMSENBURG Remsenburg Academy ''Welcome to the Jungle,'' drip-style paintings
and objects with graffiti overlays by Esly E. Escobar. Through Sept. 8.
Remsenburg Academy, 130 South Country Road. remsenburgassociation.com;
631-325-1834.

RIVERHEAD Thirty West Main ''August Abstracts,'' group show. Through Oct. 29.
Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Thirty West Main, 30 West Main
Street. 631-727-0900; eastendarts.org.

RIVERHEAD Suffolk County Historical Society ''From Shore to Shore Exhibit:
Boatbuilders and Boatyards of Long Island.'' Through Sept. 19. $5; free for
members. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Suffolk County
Historical Society, 300 West Main Street. 631-727-2881;
suffolkcountyhistoricalsociety.org.

ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''The Moderns'': ''Selections From the
Saltzman Family Collection,'' and ''Long Island Collects Modern Art.'' ''Posters
of the Russian Revolution: 1917-1921.'' ''Frank Olt: New Works.'' Through Nov.
8. $4 to $10; children 4 and under and members, free. Nassau County Museum of
Art, 1 Museum Drive. 516-484-9337. nassaumuseum.org.

SAG HARBOR  Richard J. Demato Fine Arts Gallery ''Across a Rural Skyline,''
paintings by Andrea Kowch. Through Sept. 28. Sundays through Thursdays, 10 a.m.
to 6 p.m.; Friday and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Richard J. Demato Fine Arts
Gallery, 90 Main Street. rjdgallery.com; 631-725-1161.

SAG HARBOR Dodds & Eder Home ''Nature's End,'' group show. Wednesdays through
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Dodds & Eder Home, 11
Bridge Street. zeigerarts.com; 917-239-0493.

SAG HARBOR Romany Kramoris Gallery Abstract paintings by Barbara Groot. Through
Sept. 3. Romany Kramoris Gallery, 41 Main Street. kramorisgallery.com;
631-725-2499.

SHOREHAM North Shore Public Library ''All Things Sacred,'' abstract paintings.
Sep. 1 through 29. North Shore Public Library, 250 Route 25A. 631-929-4488;
northshorepubliclibrary.org.

ST. JAMES Mills Pond House Gallery ''Finely Crafted,'' works by members of Long
Island Craft Guild. Sept. 12 through Oct. 3. Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to
5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Mills Pond House Gallery, 660
Route 25A. stacarts.org; 631-862-6575.

STONY BROOK Charles B. Wang Center ''Origami Heaven,'' origami works by eight
artists. Sept. 9 through Dec. 31. Free. ''Reality Override,'' mixed-media art by
artist Ren Zi. Sept. 9 through Dec. 31. Free. ''Explore History: Objects From
Asia,'' rotating collaborative exhibition examining Asian and Asian-American
material culture. Sept. 9 through Dec. 31. Reception: Sept. 9 at 5 p.m. Mondays
through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., or by appointment. Charles B. Wang Center,
Stony Brook University. thewangcenter.org; 631-632-4400.

STONY BROOK Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages ''Gilding
the Coasts: Art and Design of Long Island's Great Estates,'' group show. Through
Oct. 25. $3.50 to $9; members and children under 6, free. Thursdays through
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Long Island Museum of
American Art, History and Carriages, 1200 Route 25A. 631-751-0066;
longislandmuseum.org.

STONY BROOK Simons Center for Geometry and Physics at Stony Brook University
''Manfred Mohr: Pioneer of Algorithmic Art,'' Simons Center Gallery. Sept. 10
through Nov. 12. Simons Center for Geometry and Physics at Stony Brook
University, 100 Nicolls Road. 631-632-2800.

WATER MILL Sara Nightingale Gallery ''True Confections,'' ceramics by Monica
Banks and embroideries and photographs by Christa Maiwald. Through Sept. 3.
Daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sara Nightingale Gallery, 688 Montauk Highway.
631-793-2256; saranightingale.com.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/things-to-do-on-long-island-aug-30-to
-sept-6-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NORTHPORT: ''Null'' (2015), oil on canvas, is in ''Catharsis,''
an exhibition of paintings and drawings by Kate Zambrano, at the Haven Gallery,
155 Main Street, through Sept. 24. For information: 631-757-0500
havenartgallery.com. (LI6)
WESTHAMPTON BEACH: The rock musician John Hiatt will perform at the Westhampton
Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street, on Sept. 6 at 8 p.m. Tickets are
$63 to $103. 631-288-1500
 whbpac.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE COPPOLA/GETTY IMAGES) (LI8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (92%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); THEATER &
DRAMA (78%); DANCE (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); BALLET (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT
LIFE (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); FILM FESTIVALS (76%); DANCERS (73%); PUBLIC
LIBRARIES (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); RELIGION (69%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Irina Lisker, Michael Weil

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 134 words


Dr. Irina Lisker and Michael Joseph Weil are to be married Sunday by Rabbi
Ronald Roth at the Estate at the Florentine Gardens, a party space in River
Vale, N.J.

The bride, 32, is a second-year resident in family medicine at Hunterdon Medical
Center in Flemington, N.J. She graduated cum laude from Mount Holyoke and
received a medical degree from the University of Connecticut. She is a daughter
of Isabella E. Lisker of New London, Conn.

The groom, 30, is a law clerk to Judge Anthony F. Picheca of the New Jersey
Superior Court, who has his chambers in Somerville, N.J. He graduated magna cum
laude from George Washington and received a law degree with high honors from
UConn. He is a son of Bena H. Weil and Steven K. Weil of Fair Lawn, N.J.

The couple were introduced through the dating site JDate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/irina-lisker-michael-weil.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOVE PHOTOGRAPHY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COURTSHIP & DATING (88%); LAW SCHOOLS
(87%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (73%); FAMILY PRACTICE (71%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%)

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (54%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Playoff-Bound Liberty Collect 20th Win

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; LIBERTY 80, SUN 66; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 131 words


UNCASVILLE, Conn. --  Epiphanny Prince had 18 points and 4 steals, and Tina
Charles added 15 points and 5 assists to help the Liberty beat the Connecticut
Sun, 80-66, on Saturday night.

The Liberty (20-8) had already clinched their first playoff berth since 2012
with an 81-68 home victory over the Minnesota Lynx at Madison Square Garden on
Friday night.

Kiah Stokes had 12 points and 10 rebounds, Swin Cash finished with 11 points,
and the Liberty outscored the Sun by 23-9 in the fourth quarter.

A Cash 3-pointer gave the Liberty a 64-61 lead with 7 minutes 15 seconds left.
They closed the game on a 16-5 run.

The Liberty shot a season-high 55.9 percent (33 of 59) from the field.

Kelsey Bone led the Sun (12-17) with 22 points and 7 rebounds.

The Sun have lost seven straight.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/basketball/playoff-bound-liberty-collec
t-20th-win.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (87%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jacquelyn Leung, Marshall Ford

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 233 words


Jacquelyn Frances Leung, the daughter of Alice Leung and Andrew Leung of Boonton
Township, N.J., was married Monday to Marshall Thomas Ford, the son of Merrie M.
Ford and Tim R. Ford of Kansas City, Mo. Michael McSweeney, the New York City
clerk, officiated at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau.

On Saturday, the Rev. Donald Wong, who was ordained by the Church of Living
Grace, led a nondenominational Christian ceremony at Maritime Parc, an events
space in Jersey City.

Mrs. Ford, 28, is an occupational therapist working with older adults at Fox
Rehabilitation in New York. She graduated from Boston University, from which she
also received a master's in occupational therapy.

Her father is the executive vice president and the principal engineer of YU &
Associates, a consulting engineering firm in Elmwood Park, N.J. Her mother is a
finance manager in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., for Eisai, a Japanese pharmaceutical
company.

Mr. Ford, also 28, is a customer performance analyst in New York for the AmeriCo
Group, providing analysis of retail data. He graduated from the University of
Denver and received a master's degree in international management from Portland
State University.

His mother is the administrative assistant in Kansas City for Valorem
Consulting. His father is an international business coach for SkillPath, a
company in Mission, Kan., that provides professional development training.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/jacquelyn-leung-marshall-ford
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (86%); RELIGION (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); ENGINEERING
(73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (52%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (52%)

COMPANY: EISAI CO LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: 4523 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (56%);
NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2835 IN VITRO &
IN VIVO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KANSAS,
USA (57%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Letters

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 967 words


L.A. Laws

To the Editor:

In his review of ''Blue: The LAPD and the Battle to Redeem American Policing''
(Aug. 9), Mark Horowitz omitted two political developments that were crucial to
William Bratton's appointment as chief of the Los Angeles Police Department.

The first were amendments to the city's charter imposing a two-term limit on the
police chief's tenure and expanding the mayor's authority by assigning to him or
her the power to appoint the chief. The second was the political courage of
James K. Hahn, the first mayor to take office under the new rules.

Hahn, who is white, was heavily dependent on the African-American vote when he
was elected mayor. Bernard Parks, the incumbent chief, who is black, was
immensely popular in the African-American community despite his well-known
reputation for opposing meaningful reform. Hahn knew his support in that
community would plummet if he refused to reappoint Parks. Yet he also knew from
his years as city attorney how firmly the old- school Parks was opposed to the
substantive changes Hahn had come to believe were essential to reforming the
department.

Hahn doomed his own re-Â­election when he refused to reappoint Parks and
appointed Bratton, and the entire city has been better off for it ever since.

DAVID I. SCHULMAN

LOS ANGELES

The writer was a Los Angeles deputy city attorney from 1980 to 2012.

â¬¥

Marian Evans, Saloniste

To the Editor:

''Marian Evans .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. scandalously cohabiting with
a married man .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. was a social pariah,'' Jo
Baker writes in her review of ''Sophie and the Sybil'' (Aug. 16). ''But Eliot
was now a success.''

The unpublished guest lists kept by George Henry Lewes (available at the Yale
University Library), who noted each arrival at the Sunday salon he and George
Eliot conducted from 1869 to 1878 (see my book ''George Eliot in Society:
Travels Abroad and Sundays at the Priory''), reveal that Evans/Eliot did not
remain a ''pariah'' for long after her illegal union with Lewes. Her salon
welcomed many notable Victorians (Robert Browning, Charles Darwin, Herbert
Spencer, George du Maurier), including many women (Edith Simcox, Rosalind
Howard, Barbara Bodichon, Lady Castletown). Although some of the most faithful
male visitors (notably Anthony Trollope) did not bring their wives to the
Priory, the word pariah does not apply to the woman who conducted well-attended
Victorian Sunday salons until Lewes's death in 1878.

KATHLEEN McCORMACK

NORTH MIAMI, FLA.

The writer is a professor of literature at Florida International University.

â¬¥

Whose ClichÃ©?

To the Editor:

I appreciate Kyla Wazana Tompkins's review of my novel ''Lincoln's Billy''
(Shortlist, Aug. 16), about William Herndon. But when she concludes by calling
out a ''genre clichÃ©'' and quotes the phrase ''vigorous and comely mulatto''
from the novel, the danger of writing researched historical fiction became clear
to me.

Lincoln's cousin John Hanks used that phrase when he described Lincoln's
witnessing a slave auction in New Orleans as a youth, reputedly the origin of
the future president's disgust with slavery. Herndon, in his 1889 biography of
Lincoln, quoted Hanks, and I made that clear in the novel: I was quoting Herndon
quoting Hanks. My point: I am twice removed from the clichÃ© of the comely
mulatto.

The irony is that Hanks wasn't even in New Orleans, where he supposedly saw
Lincoln respond to the auction. Perhaps the unreliable Hanks was falling back on
a ''genre clichÃ©'' when he told his story.

TOM LeCLAIR

BROOKLYN

â¬¥

Murakami and Bellow

To the Editor:

There is little question that many of Haruki Murakami's novels display the
influence of Kafka, as Steve Erickson observes in his review of ''Wind/Pinball''
(Aug. 16). He also notes Murakami's references to Henry James, President
Kennedy, Glenn Gould, Marvin Gaye and the Mickey Mouse Club, among others.

That's quite a diverse lineup, but missing from the list was someone whose
technique I have found in many of Murakami's works -- Saul Bellow. Advancing
plot and character development through the use of intense, deeply philosophical
one-on-one conversations between characters is a Bellovian touch that serves
Murakami well.

JOHN F. HOGAN

CHICAGO

â¬¥

That Time

To the Editor:

In her Critic's Take essay (''It's the End of the World as She Knows It,'' July
26), Sloane Crosley parenthetically notes that ''plenty of plots in
post-apocalyptic fiction have to do with pregnancy, but, as far as I know, no
one in the history of the genre ever has her period.''

I agree that menstruating females are a rarity in dystopian and post-apocalyptic
fiction. Who has time, while depicting survivors collecting canned goods and
seeking shelter from roving cannibals, to portray desperate women seeking out
the remaining stores of Advil, tampons and bourbon?

But in Chapter 4 of George Orwell's ''1984,'' Julia, Winston Smith's lover in
the Outer Party, gets her period. They are meeting in secret, and she cancels a
planned tryst because of ''the usual reason. It's started early this time.''
This initially frustrates Smith, but it does provoke him to ponder what life
would be like if negotiating sex around Julia's cycle were the only thing
affecting their sexual lives, as opposed to also having to deal with his
varicose ulcer, their vastly reduced resources and all that police state stuff.

I also think you're more likely to see a menstruating female in a dystopia,
paradoxically, when the characters are not interested in repopulation: when the
proles have the childbearing thing covered and sex, as it does for Winston and
Julia, largely concerns pleasure, privacy and anything else denied them in this
landscape.

LISA FLUET

BOSTON

The writer is an assistant professor of English at the College of the Holy
Cross.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/letters-la-laws.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (85%); WRITERS (78%);
APPOINTMENTS (77%); TERM LIMITS (76%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (60%); LIBRARIES
(60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lebanese Protesters Aiming for Rare Unity Against Gridlocked Government

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD; Hwaida Saad contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1338 words


BEIRUT, Lebanon --  Thousands of Lebanese demonstrators gathered on Saturday
evening to protest towering garbage piles, corruption and political dysfunction,
infusing new momentum into a campaign for better governance that seeks to unite
citizens often divided by religion and politics.

The crowd in downtown Beirut was the movement's biggest turnout yet, despite
earlier fears of violence. Last weekend, security forces used water cannons,
tear gas and rubber bullets, and some protesters threw rocks. But on Saturday,
activists and authorities alike vowed to avoid clashes and largely succeeded,
with some arrests of protesters after most had gone home.

As demonstrators waved Lebanese flags and danced to Arabic music, a sense of
excitement and possibility grew. Many see the movement as a rare chance to unite
Lebanon behind a cause not drummed up by any religious or political leader.
Indeed, a sentiment common among a wide spectrum of protesters is
disillusionment with the country's entire political class amid the longstanding
failure of the state to provide basic services while leaders bicker over profits
and patronage.

Gathering on Martyrs' Square -- a symbolic area between the eastern and western
districts of Beirut whose residents fought each other for much of the civil war
a generation ago -- organizers declared they were against all the political
leaders.

''Everybody means everybody,'' said Assaad Thebian, one of a small group of
organizers who started protests a month ago over the collapse of garbage
collection. They have named their movement ''You Stink.''

The protests have quickly broadened, drawing a range of environmental,
good-governance, labor and leftist groups, as well as members of the public who
say they have not been summoned by any group. Interest has grown even as many
Lebanese worry that the movement will be hijacked by political groups and try to
decode hidden agendas among the protesters.

As protesters marched downtown, they chanted, ''No to sectarianism. This is a
popular revolution.'' Some added, ''The people want the fall of the regime,'' a
typical rallying cry from the Arab revolts, or simply, ''Revolution!''

Some indicated that they had no desire to topple the entire system and that they
wanted only to press Lebanon's Parliament and cabinet to resign.

Still, it was striking to hear such cries, often in jovial tones, in 2015, more
than four years after the Arab revolts began with protests in Tunisia, Syria,
Libya and Egypt -- countries now struggling with varying degrees of violence and
disappointment.

Most central to the Lebanese experience is the war next door in Syria, which has
killed well over 200,000 people and driven millions from the country. But unlike
authoritarian Syria, Lebanon has a weak government that has long tolerated
fractious political disputes. Protesters said that even though rival Lebanese
factions back opposite sides in Syria, protests here would not lead to major
violence -- much less state collapse.

''The difference is, we don't want to bring down our structure,'' said Maria
Keserwani, 27, a human resources manager who camped out the night before with
fellow protesters from various sects. ''We want our structure to stay, but we
want it to improve.''

One of her companions, Elias Nassar, said, ''Besides, Lebanon has lived through
civil war, and we all know we don't want that.''

Others said Saturday that the demands needed to be sharpened. Nizam Abou Khzam,
a leader of the Lebanon Eco Movement, said his group wanted to stick to narrow
goals.

''We are not for toppling the regime, we are for reforms,'' he said. ''To be
effective, we have to be logical.''

But Ali, an academic in a pinstriped suit and paisley cravat who declined to
give his full name, said the mistake was in not taking enough risks.

''There should be more violence,'' he said, adding that he did not want anyone
to be hurt, but that it had been a mistake for organizers to pull back from the
streets last Sunday after rumors circulated of infiltrators instigating
violence. It was a case, he said, of bourgeois protesters mislabeling fired-up
working-class teenagers as thugs.

Ansar al-Andari, 32, drove an hour with her two young boys to attend the march,
all of them decked out in Lebanese flags. Her demands were straightforward:
''Electricity, water and dignity,'' she said. ''And get these sectarian thieves
out. We look at each other as enemies while they are filling their pockets. It's
not enough to sit home and complain.''

Nowhere to be seen were the flags of the different religious and political
factions that jockey for power in Lebanon. That absence was what lured many
first-time protesters, like Noor Abbas.

Ms. Abbas, 19, is from the southern suburbs of Beirut, where Hezbollah is
popular. She said she came when she saw that earlier protests featured ''no
politicians.'' She wore a pink head scarf; her friend wore a purple one. ''I'm
so hopeful,'' she said. ''So happy. We want to change the system.''

The main political divide in Lebanon is between the March 14 movement, which
came together to demand the end of Syria's military presence in Lebanon in 2005
after the assassination of the former prime minister Rafik Hariri, and the March
8 movement, which backed the Syrian government.

The main player of March 8 is Hezbollah, the Shiite militant group and political
party. For March 14, it is the Future Movement, Hezbollah's main Sunni rival. On
Saturday, some protesters shouted, ''14 and 8, they turned the country into a
corner shop.''

A voice from a loudspeaker said, ''One is with Saudi Arabia, one is with Iran,''
referring to the March 14 and 8 movements and their respective international
patrons.

The You Stink activists gave the government a 72-hour ultimatum to meet their
demands, or face even larger protests.

The activists called for accountability of security forces' use of violence
against protesters, including from the interior minister, Nohad Mashnouq; the
resignation of the environment minister, Mohammad Mashnouq (no relation), who
presided over the garbage crisis; the release of money owed by the government to
municipalities to handle their trash; and parliamentary elections.

Some politicians have attempted to cast blame on their rivals.

''They are trying to play the usual game,'' said Shadban Fakih, 27, a graphic
designer. ''What they don't understand is that we are against all of them.''

Political gridlock has left Lebanon without a president for more than a year,
and Parliament has extended its own mandate twice, delaying elections until
2017. The system has divided top posts among Shiites, Sunnis and Christians
since before the civil war, and it is seen as a way of ensuring power sharing.

Few are calling for that system to be scrapped wholesale any time soon. Most are
seeking instead to dismantle the system of sectarian patronage that has grown up
around it, and calling for accountability and transparency from the government.

While there were many middle-class families and white-collar professionals,
there were also people from working-class neighborhoods across Lebanon's
religious spectrum.

Among them were groups of rambunctious teenagers who had come -- respectively --
from modest Sunni and Shiite neighborhoods that lack reliable electricity and
water. Both groups complained that they could not get jobs without ''wasta,''
the word for pull or connections.

Ali Halawi, 19, who lives in the largely Shiite Dahiyeh area, said, ''Just to
get into the army, I was asked to pay a bribe.'' Instead, he said, he works
fixing toilets.

Also protesting was Mohammed, 16, from the mostly Sunni Tariq Jadideh area, who
declined to give his last name. Asked what his demands were, he said, ''I just
want to take a shower.''

Some protesters at the end tried to break through a security fence. Riot police
cleared them away and made arrests. One of Mr. Halawi's friends said they had
been beaten by the police -- and would be back on Tuesday to protest more.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/middleeast/lebanon-protests-garbage-gove
rnment-corruption.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thousands of people came to central Beirut on Saturday for the
latest antigovernment protest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMED AZAKIR/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS
& UPRISINGS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%); RELIGION
(72%); CIVIL WAR (71%); ARRESTS (71%)

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (95%)

COUNTRY: LEBANON (97%); SYRIA (94%); TUNISIA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Closing the Book

BYLINE: By DYLAN LANDIS.

Dylan Landis is the author of a ­novel, ''Rainey Royal,'' and a story
collection, ''Normal People Don't Live Like This.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRITIC'S TAKE; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 863 words


It didn't surprise me, when my parents were dying, that I couldn't write. But it
shocked me, as a writer of fiction, that I couldn't read.

I saw them twice a week. My father was difficult. When in the hospital, he
sundowned often -- raging against institutions where he believed he was the only
patient, subject of a sick psychiatric joke. I missed his gentle wisdom. My
mother remained a sweetheart, smiling at even the roughest nurses who came to
suction her tracheotomy tube.

When I took the train from New York City to Tarrytown, near their Sleepy Hollow
home, I expected to read as if famished. After all, in 2008, when I had commuted
two hours a day to radiation therapy for breast cancer, I had read dozens of
novels on the bus. I had been afraid -- of my body, and for my body -- and
novels transported me. This time, I found myself staring out the train windows,
book in lap, unread.

And when my parents napped, instead of curling into the guest chair to read, I
daughtered, picking up Kleenex blossoms, straightening papers and updating their
friends. I opened books, listlessly closed them and talked to the aides about
their boyfriends, their money and, with some of them, God.

Of course I wondered what was wrong with me. Normally, I would read a book or
two a week, not only for pleasure but for the sheer joy of study. Now, I read
almost solely for work, and could not sink deeply into a text.

I had begun keeping a reading list, and noticed it was a kind of EKG of the
heart and mind. Some months I read only one book -- one book. A year ago March,
with my father slumped in his wheelchair, mute, two months before his death, the
list shows that I opened two books and finished neither. I judged myself
harshly. You are a writer -- books should be your salve. But they were not.

I wanted to read as I grieved my still living, slipping-away parents. But I had
lost my way to literature as refuge and inspiration. Just as I had been reduced
to writing emails instead of my own novel chapters, I found myself reading
Facebook on the hospital Wi-Fi instead of books.

Words on paper had been reduced by grief to what painters call marks. As such,
they had lost their power to resonate. So I found myself grieving, too, what I
took to be an understandable loss of concentration.

My father died in late May, my mother seven weeks later. They left a large, deep
and disordered library, and in yet another loss, I had no room in my apartment
for more than a carton of their books.

That summer I found refuge in the beautiful gloom of Hans Fallada's ''Every Man
Dies Alone,'' but only in that. Through July and August I commuted to clean out
my parents' apartment -- or, rather, to traipse around it in a daze. For it was
I who was scoured out.

Unable to find comfort in reading, the activity that had sheltered me for years,
I began to wonder if I had brought this isolation on myself. Had I walled out
words, overcome by the emotion they evoke?

A powerful book does not so much contain emotion as elicit it in the reader, an
experience I must have found crushing. When I teach fiction, I quote Chekhov
about the need to ''be more cold'' in one's writing -- to not baldly state
emotion, but rather coolly to put down the details of a scene so the reader, in
response, can step in and experience the emotion ­for herself.

I had stripped my parents when they died, washed their bodies, dressed them for
cremation. By then, all I wanted was anesthetic, the very opposite of a book.

The list shows I kept struggling to read. In the winter months, I started 11
books. But my notations betray my lack of focus: must finish, must finish, must
finish.

Perhaps what I could not tolerate were endings.

What are you reading, friends asked, and I hedged. I named books on the night
stand, books I would never complete, or the same few books I had managed to
power through. I finally admitted this to my writing partner, Heather Sellers,
and to my deep relief she said: ''After my father died, I couldn't read for a
year. I couldn't go on that journey. I couldn't even pack for the trip.''

Finally, nine months after my mother's death, the ability to read slowly began
to return. I found I could read for about 15 minutes at a time -- a fraction of
the two-hour plunges I once took. On rare occasions, I would fall into a state
of grace and once again a book consumed me. Yet my subject matter seemed
curiously circumscribed. Long ago, biologists used to say ''ontogeny repeats
phylogeny,'' meaning fetal growth reiterates the stages of evolution. (It only
looks that way.) My newly recovered ability to dwell on words may have
reiterated the stages of my life. All I could relish, at that stage, were novels
with young female protagonists, 14-, 15-year-olds, troubled, like the girls I
write about and once identified with. ''My Brilliant Friend,'' by Elena
Ferrante. ''Sister Golden Hair,'' by Darcey Steinke. ''The Scamp,'' by Jennifer
Pashley.

I've heard it said that we don't mature fully till we lose both parents. Perhaps
I had to relive, in these novels, my early adolescence before I could start to
find that new adulthood -- and lose myself in reading again.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/closing-the-book.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SÉBASTIEN THIBAULT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FICTION LITERATURE
(90%); WRITERS (89%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (77%); CANCER (76%); COMMUTING (74%);
RADIOLOGY (72%); ONCOLOGY (71%); TRAINS (70%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (69%);
BREAST CANCER (55%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(51%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Secret Shame

BYLINE: By LAILA LALAMI.

Laila Lalami's most recent novel, ''The Moor's Account,'' was a finalist for the
Pulitzer Prize.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 835 words


FLOOD OF FIREBy Amitav Ghosh 616 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $28.  To read
Amitav Ghosh's ''Flood of Fire'' is to enter a world of sepoys, sahibs and
rajahs, traveling with them from Assam to Calcutta to Canton, all the while
learning about their pasts and dreading or hoping for their futures. It is a
fictional journey both physical and temporal and, like real journeys, best
appreciated when one is willing to accept detours and adventures.

Many of the characters will be familiar to readers of the previous two volumes
of Ghosh's Ibis trilogy. In the first, ''Sea of Poppies,'' he introduced us to
Deeti, a widow who flees her husband's funeral pyre only to end up on the Ibis,
a former slave ship transporting indentured servants from India to Mauritius.
Deeti and a few others manage to escape the life that awaits them on the sugar
estates, claiming new identities. In ''River of Smoke,'' the second installment,
Ghosh moved the narrative to Canton, specifically to ­Fanqui-town, the enclave
where foreigners live and trade with the locals. At a time when the Chinese
authorities are attempting to abolish the opium trade, a Parsee merchant from
Bombay tries to make his fortune from a single, massive shipment.

Now, in ''Flood of Fire,'' the trilogy's final volume, Ghosh picks up the story
in 1839, a few months before the outbreak of the First Opium War. We meet Kesri
Singh, a sepoy -- an Indian soldier in the British service -- who has now
volunteered to be part of an expeditionary force for the East India Company;
Zachary Reid, an American sailor who quite unexpectedly finds himself in a
position to trade in opium; Shireen Modi, a widow who travels to China to look
for her late husband's illegitimate child; and Neel Rattan Halder, a rajah who
was separated from his son after his arrest by the British.

All four characters are by turns helped or thwarted in their desires by the
forces of the opium trade, forces that are essentially beyond their control. All
four also carry a secret shame. Kesri Singh has been told that his sister Deeti
deserted her husband, the brother of his own superior, and took up with a
low-caste laborer, bringing dishonor on the family. Zachary Reid, the son of an
American slave, now passes as white and hopes to enter a trade largely dominated
by white men. Shireen Modi has begun to have feelings for the Armenian man who
was her husband's close friend, a relationship that would surely be frowned upon
if the Parsee community discovered it. And Neel Rattan Halder, the former Rajah
of Raskhali, is in hiding because he has been convicted on trumped-up charges of
forgery and, if found, will be hauled off to jail.

These are the elements of the social novel -- characters held together or kept
apart by a powerful array of cultural, racial and religious norms. Inevitably,
questions of loyalty and betrayal arise, and none find easy answers. As Neel
writes in his diary, ''It is madness to think that knowing a language and
reading a few books can create allegiances between people. Thoughts, books,
ideas, words -- if anything they make you more alone, because they destroy
whatever instinctive loyalties you may once have possessed.''

Ghosh, the author of seven previous novels and five books of nonfiction, is a
writer with a passion for language. He doesn't simply create a world, he
delights in giving it the truest words. In his prose, a half-Indian,
half-Chinese opium addict sounds completely different from an upper-class Parsee
widow, who in turn sounds completely different from a British woman who has been
raised in India. (In one amusing episode, the British woman comes up with an
impressive array of terms for sex organs or sex acts. She calls a slack penis
''a sleeping bawhawder,'' masturbation is referred to as ''soaping the sepoy''
and cunnilingus becomes ''making a chutney.'')

Ghosh's novel is also concerned with how the nascent free trade of the region
has brought about a major conflict, which is resolved through military force.
Watching one of the battles of the Opium War, Neel wonders: ''How was it
possible that a small number of men, in the span of a few hours or minutes,
could decide the fate of millions of people yet unborn? How was it possible that
the outcome of those brief moments could determine who would rule whom, who
would be rich or poor, master or servant, for generations to come?''

''Flood of Fire'' is what Henry James might have called a loose, baggy monster.
The novel brims with wonderful historical details, clearly the result of
prodigious research. But at times Ghosh adds background information that, while
perhaps useful to readers unfamiliar with the earlier books in the trilogy,
weighs down the narrative. And Neel's part of the novel, told in the form of a
diary, occasionally lacks the drama and immediacy of the others. Still, Ghosh
has so much passion for his subject, so much care for his characters and such a
command of his prose that readers will find it easy to surrender to the story.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/amitav-ghoshs-flood-of-fire.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amitav Ghosh (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MADRID-KUSER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); OPIUM (89%); SLAVERY (73%); FAMILY (73%); DRUG
TRAFFICKING (71%); ARRESTS (66%); MEN (64%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

CITY: KOLKATA, WEST BENGAL, INDIA (73%); MUMBAI, MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (56%)

STATE: ASSAM, INDIA (88%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (73%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (56%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); MAURITIUS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

This Land Is Our Land

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 828 words


THE other day, my teenage daughter and I were idly browsing real estate porn, a
monument to American inequality: a private island in the Bahamas selling for
$17.9 million; a 900-acre retreat in Washington State for $11 million; and an
83-acre estate in Colorado for a cool $100 million.

Then we snapped out of the covetousness, for we had just been enjoying a
vacation on even more exclusive property, so valuable that no hedge fund manager
could ever afford to buy or rent it.

We had been hiking day after day past pristine mountain lakes, serenaded by the
babble of snow-fed streams, greeted by vivid wildflowers in alpine meadows. And
it's all my land!

Of course, it's also your land. It's our extraordinary national inheritance, one
of the greatest gifts of our ancestors -- our public lands.

My daughter and I were backpacking a 210-mile stretch of the Pacific Crest Trail
in central California, from Donner Pass to Yosemite. The cost? It was all free.

Most of the time in America, we're surrounded by oppressive inequality, such
that the wealthiest 1 percent collectively own substantially more than the
bottom 90 percent. One escape from that is America's wild places.

At a time when so much else in America is rationed by price, egalitarianism
thrives in the wilderness. On the trail, no one can pull rank on you -- except a
grizzly bear. (In that case, be very deferential!)

Wilderness trails constitute a rare space in America marked by economic
diversity. Lawyers and construction workers get bitten by the same mosquitoes
and sip from the same streams; there are none of the usual signals about
socioeconomic status, for most hikers are in shorts and a T-shirt, and enveloped
by an aroma that would make a skunk queasy.

The wild offers the simplest and cheapest of vacations. My daughter and I unroll
our sleeping bags on a $5 plastic sheet and watch shooting stars until we fall
asleep (if it rains we set up a tarp). We carry all our food. And at the end, we
sometimes try to hitchhike back to civilization (although drivers mostly speed
up when they see me).

Car campers often pay fees. But there are almost never fees for backpackers in
the real wilderness. Instead, you pay in sweat and blisters.

In that respect, the wilderness reflects a vision for America that is more
democratic than just about any other space in our country.

I can't help thinking that if the American West were discovered today, the most
glorious bits would be sold off to the highest bidder. Yosemite might be nothing
but weekend homes for Internet tycoons.

Fortunately, America's visionaries back then didn't think that way. People like
Theodore Roosevelt and Gifford Pinchot who helped preserve our wild places were
personally wealthy and could afford country estates. But they understood the
importance of common ownership of some of America's natural heritage, so that
access didn't depend on wealth or breeding.

Their vision reflected a deep belief at the time, among Republicans as well as
Democrats, in public services that transcended class. The result was the world's
best public school system at the time, networks of public libraries, public
parks and beaches, and later a broad system of public universities and community
colleges.

Sadly, that belief in public goods today seems old-fashioned!

My daughter and I are hiking the full Pacific Crest Trail, 2,650 miles from
Mexico to Canada, in the narrow window in which she's strong enough and I'm not
yet decrepit. We've hiked half and hope to finish in another five or six years.

My favorite area this time was the area south of Sonora Pass, a stunning
landscape of jagged peaks, snow patches and alpine lakes. We found it more
intoxicating than any microbrew.

Then it started hailing on us. Yes, in midsummer balls of ice the size of
marbles pelted us, stinging through hats and clothing. Soon the ice turned to
rain, the trail to mud -- and we were reminded that one of the great things
about the wilderness is its capacity to discomfort and humble us.

Most of the time in the 21st century, we dominate our surroundings: We tweak the
thermostat and the temperature falls one degree. We push a button and Taylor
Swift sings for us. It's the opposite in the wilderness, which teaches us
constantly that we are not lords of the universe but rather building blocks of
it.

In the best sense, nature puts us in our place. Sometimes with icy toes.

Wilderness offers therapy for the soul as just about the last fully egalitarian
place in America. Here we all stand equal -- before the bears and the
mosquitoes. And there's a lesson here worth emulating for the rest of America.

I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly newsletter. When you do,
you'll receive an email about my columns as they're published and other
occasional commentary. Sign up here.I also invite you to visit my blog, On the
Ground. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and
follow me on Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/nicholas-kristof-this-land-is-o
ur-land.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A section of the Pacific Crest Trail in central California. The
trail extends south to Mexico and north to Canada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS
KRISTOF/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIKING (89%);
BACKPACKING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LAKES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%); MOUNTAINS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); PLASTIC
FILM SHEETS & BAGS (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BAHAMAS (92%); CANADA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Summer That Never Was

BYLINE: By TIM KREIDER.

Tim Kreider is the author of ''We Learn Nothing,'' a collection of essays and
cartoons.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1288 words


I NEVER went to Iceland. I suppose I should say I didn't go to Iceland this
summer -- never sounds a little melodramatic, possibly terminal. It's not as if
I've died and all hope of ever having gone to Iceland is obviated. But for some
reason this missed opportunity is causing me more than the usual, near-toxic
level of regret. I've had a free apartment in Reykjavik on offer for several
years, and somehow I've never made it there. The owner of the apartment sends me
photos of the aurora borealis that break my heart.

This was going to be the summer I finally went. Airfares were cheap. I'd just
finished writing a book in May, and for the first time in three years the awful
obligation to Work on My Book was not weighing on my soul. The summer looked as
wide open and shimmering with possibility as the summers of childhood.

But events conspired against me. I just couldn't afford the flight until some
checks I was waiting on arrived, and though all other transactions in the 21st
century are conducted electronically and instantaneously, the process of paying
writers is apparently still carried out by scriveners and counting-houses and
small boys dispatched with shillings in their hands, so by the time I got the
money I'd run out of summer.

Other unexpected complications arose, as they always do. I'd also intended to be
less of a recluse this summer, to see old friends more often, make regular trips
down to Baltimore and have visitors at my cabin every weekend. But just before
the Fourth of July, a friend and former editor of mine nearly severed her little
toe falling down the stairs at my house, and was laid up on crutches at my place
for the next few weeks. She tried to be as independent as possible, but there
are limits to what a woman can do with two surgical pins in her toe, so my job
became to make her tea, fetch things for her and occasionally carry her from
place to place like Mr. Alexander's bodyguard in ''A Clockwork Orange.''

She'd recovered enough to go home by the end of July, and I've been frantically
trying to cram all the idle goofing off I didn't get to do all summer into the
last few weeks, but goofing off isn't the sort of thing you can cram.

Every reminder of forgone pleasures -- the empty hammock I hardly ever lay in, a
little sugar-cube melon that went bad before I'd even cut one slice from it --
makes me want to cry. This end-of-summer melancholy is a common experience, even
a cliché. Part of it of course is just my dread and hatred of back-to-school
time, unchanged since childhood. The whole world of work and productivity still
seems to me like an unconscionable waste of time; the only parts of life that
really matter are the summers, the in-between times -- the idle goofing off.

But there's more to it than that. I use the word ''never'' in my Icelandic
lament because there really is attached to it a sense of desolation, as of a
possibility lost forever. For me, at least, it feels less like ''melancholy,''
which is a gentle, almost pleasant emotion, and more like terror. It's only a
superficial throb of a pain that goes much deeper, in the same way that those
few oddly cool days in August are the first innocuous evidence of an entire
planet tilting inexorably into the shadow. It's entangled, somewhere down there,
with the existential panic of aging. Of time passing, the calendar running out,
things left undone.

I don't think I'm belaboring a metaphor here; I think that's what this feeling
is really about. I'm not old but I'm not young anymore, either, and if you're a
procrastinator and a ditherer like me you can manage to sustain until well into
midlife the delusion that you might yet get around to doing all the things you
meant to do; making a movie, getting married, living in Paris. But at some point
you start to suspect that you might not end up doing that stuff after all, and
have to consider the possibility that the life you have right now might pretty
much be it.

However, this also allows you to consider your actual life, instead of comparing
it to the imaginary one you plotted out at age 12, or back in May. The spring
romance I'd hoped might turn into a lasting relationship culminated, instead, in
an awkward overnight visit. But then I found myself involved with someone made
sanguine by tragedy, with the alien capacity to appreciate whatever happiness
comes her way without either second-guessing it to death or grasping at it and
clamoring for more. She's a hypnotherapist, and I've been thinking of asking her
whether it'd be possible to inculcate a similar quality in me.

Because although I didn't go to Iceland this summer, I did take care of a
friend. The time my ex-editor and I spent as invalid and manservant was kind of
like going on a cross-country road trip or to sleep-away camp together. We ended
up with a hundred in-jokes and nicknames. We're now less like friends than
siblings, meaning that we may hate each other briefly but we're doomed to love
each other forever. Once you've carried someone in your arms while she's weeping
and bleeding, you're never going to be indifferent to her again.

I didn't go to Iceland, but I watched ''Zapped!'' and ate Taco Bell in a
hospital bed, played cornhole at a pleasure club (not what it sounds like),
spent indolent afternoons drinking wine on a back porch in Baltimore and opened
a humane mousetrap only to have the captive mouse leap straight into my face
while a friend was trying to leave an ''out-of-office'' voice mail message,
which suddenly erupted into a chaos of little-girl screams and berserk cursing.
I swam naked in the Chesapeake Bay, made martinis at 5 every day, watched
fireflies after dark. I saw a Perseid meteor streak across the night sky and
vanish so fast it was hard to tell whether its incandescent trail was in the
atmosphere, on my retina, or only in memory.

I suspect that the way I feel now, at summer's end, is about how I'll feel at
the end of my life, assuming I have time and mind enough to reflect: bewildered
by how unexpectedly everything turned out, regretful about all the things I
didn't get around to, clutching the handful of friends and funny stories I've
amassed, and wondering where it all went. And I'll probably still be evading the
same truth I'm evading now: that the life I ended up with, much as I complain
about it, was pretty much the one I chose. And my dissatisfactions with it are
really with my own character, with my hesitation and timidity.

In a couple of weeks I'll resume teaching for the fall, and start boarding up my
psyche for another hateful winter in New York. But the summer's insatiate lust
for travel still torments me. A couple of weeks ago I went to the American
Museum of Natural History with some friends and their kids, and it occurred to
me, looking at the beautiful dioramas of Animals of North America, that I would
go to this museum to look at the dioramas even without any animals in them. It's
like a peep show of nature for New Yorkers. Those realistic vistas of Alaskan
glaciers, the Great Plains and Yosemite National Park pull at my insides with a
wanting that hurts. God, how I long to go out West again someday -- to drive
some blue highway in Nevada or Utah until there's absolutely nothing around me,
then stop the car, in the middle of the road, maybe, and get out and just stand
there, where I can see the horizon in every direction, and smell the air and
feel the sun and listen to the silence of the desert. I have this idea that if I
could do this, time might hold still for a second, and I would know, for just a
moment, what it feels like to be here.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/the-summer-that-never-was.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROMAN MURADOV) (SR4-SR5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (88%); AIR FARES (69%)

CITY: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (58%)

COUNTRY: ICELAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Genevieve Kimberlin, Devon Jarvis

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 218 words


Genevieve Steele Kimberlin, a daughter of Joni S. Kimberlin and Kevin B.
Kimberlin of Greenwich, Conn., was married Saturday to Devon Michael Jarvis, a
son of Carol A. Jarvis and Jackson M. Jarvis of Fairfield, Iowa. The Rev. Jack
Davidson, a Congregational minister, performed the ceremony at the First
Congregational Church in Old Greenwich.

Mrs. Jarvis, 28, manages the corporate outreach program and is an instructor at
the David Lynch Foundation in New York, started by the filmmaker David Lynch to
offer transcendental meditation to reduce stress and trauma. She graduated from
Boston College. Her father is the chairman of Spencer Trask & Company, a venture
capital firm in Greenwich. Her mother is a documentary filmmaker whose most
recent production,''Get Real! Wise Women Speak,'' was shown on public television
in 2011.

Mr. Jarvis, 26, is an associate in business development at the Global Atlantic
Financial Group in New York. He graduated from the University of Iowa. His
mother is a freelance web and graphic designer in Fairfield. His father
maintains the payroll program for representatives of Cambridge Investment
Research, a company in Fairfield that provides stockbroker services.

The couple met when a mutual friend brought Mr. Jarvis to a birthday party in
Manhattan for Ms. Kimberlin.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/genevieve-kimberlin-devon-jar
vis.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC
BROADCASTING (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (71%);
MEDITATION (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); FREELANCE
EMPLOYMENT (66%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%);
BUSINESS SOFTWARE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (69%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Decade After Katrina, New Orleans Is Partying Again, and Still Rebuilding

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 923 words


NEW ORLEANS --  ''Today is ceiling drywall,'' said Dani Babon, a 24-year-old
site supervisor for the St. Bernard Project, a volunteer group that was started
the year after Hurricane Katrina.

Ten years ago to the day, the Hendersons' house on Amelia Street was flooded by
six and a half feet of water, and Carl Henderson sat in a friend's place and
watched bodies float through town.

On Saturday, the house was filled with young people measuring, cutting and
drilling. Not that different, Ms. Babon said, from any other day.

Hurricane Katrina made landfall on Aug. 29, 2005, and wrecked the Mississippi
gulf coast. Shortly after, the levees around New Orleans breached and drowned
most of the city. More than a thousand died, more than a million homes and
businesses were damaged or destroyed, and a mass exodus took place -- a period
of exile that for many has not ended.

On the same date in 2015, the weather was not as hot as usual for this time of
year. This was all the better for the day's lineup of events: citywide volunteer
projects, prayer services, festivals and wreath layings. Multiple parades took
place, including a hundreds-strong second line parade, as the tradition is
called here, featuring wave after wave of brass bands and dancing clubs. The
parade rolled from the Lower Ninth Ward and down St. Claude Avenue, swelling as
people joined along the way.

''After pain and sorrow, we get the second line bands together and listen to
music and celebrate,'' said Shade Smith, 28, who was stranded for three days by
the floodwaters in an apartment at the St. Bernard public housing project, until
a family rowed by with a boat. ''That's just how people reunite after something
really sad, to celebrate a tragedy.''

The marquee event was in the early evening at the Smoothie King Center, the
city's professional basketball arena, where national political figures spoke,
Mardi Gras Indians chanted, musicians sang and religious leaders prayed.

Former President Bill Clinton -- the third president to visit New Orleans in
three days -- recalled coming here as a 3-year-old, the first city he had ever
visited, and later as a 15-year-old aspiring jazz musician.

In brief comments, he urged the city to celebrate the accomplishments of the
past 10 years but not to ignore the profound racial and economic disparities
that remain.

It has been a week of art exhibits, dinners, panels and lectures -- a week of
extended discussions about what the last 10 years have been about, without
arriving at any real consensus. There have been city-sanctioned talks about the
recovery as ''a model for urban America'' and summit meetings about ''the
capitalist crimes inflicted on New Orleans's working class.''

The official anniversary commemoration had its own logo, its own color scheme
and its own ubiquitous buzzword: resilience. The message from many civic and
business leaders was that the city was better than ever, or at least on track to
be.

Yet playing underneath it all was the counterpoint of shootings, the unchanging
routine of workers in the low-wage tourist economy and the occasional outbursts
of raw grief from those reminded of the worst period of their lives.

''I think a lot of people have been kind of hunkering down and feeling
ambivalent at best,'' said Justin Wolfe, a history professor at Tulane
University here. ''It feels like we're this spectacle, and yet in all that
spectacle, the horror of so much of what happened, the tribulation but also how
many people ended up on the wrong side of that story, that gets lost.''

Still, an aversion to the onslaught of attention from the news media was mixed
with a gratitude that so many people still feel invested in this city. More than
100 volunteers have worked at the Henderson house over the last few weeks, doing
in that time what had not been done in 10 years of inadequate government
disaster assistance, contractor fraud, break-ins and continuing bureaucratic
nightmares.

''It's not a celebration -- it's a headache,'' Roberta Henderson said of the
day's significance, describing the litany of stress-induced health problems that
her husband, Carl, has endured since the first days after the flood. ''Many
people wouldn't have lasted through this. They would have just died or given
up.''

The Hendersons expect to move back into their home by Thanksgiving. By Saturday
morning, the St. Bernard Project had rebuilt 615 homes in New Orleans, though
its leaders emphasize that there is still a very long way to go.

Elsewhere around the city on Saturday, life went on quietly.

''We work during the week, so this is the day we clean up,'' said Larry Sambo,
60, who on Saturday morning was washing the family car on a street in Gentilly,
a part of town that was under more than seven feet of water.

He and his wife, Arlene, ran through their own brief Katrina commemoration:
evacuation, months of moving around the South, three years in a trailer,
insufficient rebuilding aid, dishonest plumbers, higher taxes, higher insurance
costs and a street full of new neighbors.

''Katrina made things worse for us,'' Ms. Sambo said. ''We take it one day at a
time.''

In the evening, around the same time as the event in the Smoothie King Center,
the annual midsummer Mardi Gras parade was scheduled to roll uptown. The
announcement on Facebook encouraged those attending to wear their costumes. It
concluded with this clarification: ''Please note that although this parade falls
on Aug. 29, it is not an event commemorating the anniversary of Katrina.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/us/a-decade-after-katrina-new-orleans-is-party
ing-again-and-still-rebuilding.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer Jones, center at left, danced Saturday in a parade
traveling through New Orleans's Lower Ninth Ward, part of a day of community
activities on the 10th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDMUND
FOUNTAIN/REUTERS
MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES)
  Cameron Clark playing his trumpet before performing at an event. Saturday's
lineup included volunteer projects, prayer services, festivals and wreath
layings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); HURRICANES (90%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); MUSIC
(86%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (86%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); PARADES & MARCHES
(77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); CITIES (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (76%); BEVERAGE
PRODUCTS (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); HOLIDAYS &
OBSERVANCES (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (70%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (70%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); RELIGION (66%);
STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); BASKETBALL (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In the Belly of the Beast

BYLINE: By ANDREW COTTO

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD JOINT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 564 words


Heading out toward eastern Long Island, just before the patina of the Hamptons'
wealth starts to emerge, the Montauk Highway slips past quaint hamlets and faded
farmhouses and watery fingers of Moriches Bay. On the roadside in Center
Moriches, through a yawning shark's mouth, Atlantic Seafood Restaurant and Fish
Market offers a bounty from the sea -- to eat in, take out or prepare at home --
but the main attraction is the welcoming feel of the place, orchestrated by the
establishment's owner, Dennis Donovan, a local for 50 years.

Mr. Donovan is one of 10 children who relocated to Center Moriches from the
Bronx when he was 6. As a teenager he worked in a bakery. After high school, he
and a brother-in-law owned and operated some local bakeries of their own before
Mr. Donovan opened a successful pub. He also met Chrissy Flynn, daughter of
Maryann Schultz, who was co-owner of a seafood restaurant on the side of Montauk
Highway in a former swap shop where her husband, George, built lobster traps in
retirement and where, one day, Maryann steamed a lobster for a local man as a
favor. That favor gave birth to a seafood restaurant and market in 1979 that
would be sold in 2005 to the man Ms. Flynn married, Mr. Donovan.

''Look, our lobsters are cooked just like everybody else's,'' Mr. Donovan said
on a recent weekend. So clearly, it's the place that inspires the fierce
devotion of locals and those on their way out toward tonier shores. ''We try to
do things a little different.''

Even on a Saturday night in the heart of the summer season, the restaurant and
its adjacent take-out counter and fish market hum with harmony and an overriding
sense of good will. Blue-clad waitresses come and go from behind the counter
like charming acrobats of perfect timing to the tables that flank the front
entrance. In the fish market and commissary in back, Chrissy Donovan and her
daughter, Colleen, oversee takeout orders, the purchase of fresh and frozen fish
and related groceries, chatting amiably with customers while staying in constant
motion.

The prepared food comes from the silent kitchen in back, manned by Mr. and Mrs.
Donovan's son Denny and Benjamin Bravo, an Atlantic Seafood veteran of 25 years.
The senior Dennis is everywhere, still brimming with energy after a day that
began at 4 a.m. to buy fresh fish from South Shore docks and inlets, like every
other day in the nonstop summer season. He shakes hands, slaps backs, asks after
family, helps with orders, rings up tabs, clears tables and takes a knee for
conversations with seated customers, looking squarely in their eyes.

Seated for dinner recently at a table underneath a ceiling hung with nets among
walls adorned with maritime bric-a-brac were Mike and Marissa Morris, both 39,
with their 5-year-old daughter and her newborn baby sister.

''We come in quite regularly,'' Mr. Morris said, ''and nobody's going to look at
us like we have three heads if our kid cries a bit. It's very laid back. It's
family.''

''People who grew up here, stay here,'' Ms. Morris added. ''We know the
waitresses. We know everybody.''

And that's what makes the lobster Mr. Morris is eating different from one easily
found elsewhere: It's procured and prepared and served in an environment
fostered by the philosophy of a local Moriches boy (via the Bronx) made good.
And you get to pass through a shark's mouth to eat there.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/a-toothy-welcome-to-a-family-fish-res
taurant-on-long-island.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ATLANTIC SEAFOOD: Since 1979. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEATHER WALSH FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); SEAFOOD (89%); FISHES (77%); RETAIL BAKERIES (77%);
CHILDREN (76%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

High Functioning

BYLINE: By BRET ANTHONY JOHNSTON.

Bret Anthony Johnston is the author of the story collection ''Corpus Christi''
and, most recently, the novel ''Remember Me Like This.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1327 words


BEST BOYBy Eli Gottlieb 248 pp. Liveright Publishing. $24.95.  When Robert
Faggen interviewed Ken Kesey for The Paris Review in the early 1990s, he asked
about the origins of the author's most famous merry prankster, Randle P.
McMurphy from ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.'' Here's Kesey's response:

''McMurphy comes from Sunday matinees, from American westerns. He's Shane that
rides into town, shoots the bad guys and gets killed in the course of the movie.
McMurphy is a particular American cowboy hero, almost two-­dimensional. He gains
dimension from being viewed through the lens of Chief Bromden's Indian
consciousness.''

The answer is noteworthy in how it prioritizes Chief's perception over
­McMurphy's heroism. Chief's narration is deluded, tragically so, and yet it
deepens, broadens and ultimately completes ­McMurphy. Without Bromden's vision,
the story is less a social commentary, less an anti-establishment call to arms,
and more a misogynist fantasy of rugged individualism. McMurphy's story matters
because of who tells it. That the storyteller is a paranoid schizophrenic Native
American who retreats into imaginary fog every time the chaos hits the Combine
isn't arbitrary or insignificant. It's the most arresting component of the
novel.

Since the publication of ''Cuckoo's Nest'' in 1962, the literature of
institutionalized life has nearly become a genre unto itself. There are
obligatory characters (domineering doctors, subversive staffers, misfit patients
eager to mobilize behind a newly admitted leader who's primed to rage against
the machine) and familiar story elements (hospital as microcosm, conformity
versus creativity, thwarted escapes). The subject remains gravely significant,
and vast enough to allow for countless variations. Whether it's a rehab facility
or a cancer ward, readers return to these fictions in hopes of seeing a
patient's pain relieved. Eli Gottlieb's affecting fourth novel, ''Best Boy,'' is
a worthy and timely addition to the canon of hospital lit.

''Best Boy'' is the first-person account of Todd Aaron, a 50-something autistic
man who's been institutionalized for more than 40 years. The Payton LivingCenter
is peopled with orderlies and patients who are by turns belligerent and
compassionate, dangerously disturbed and insanely well adjusted. Todd spends his
days working with Payton's lawn crew and dolloping out lunch at a nearby high
school. He loves reading the Encyclopaedia Britannica (which he calls ''Mr. B'')
and playing on the computer (''Mr. C''), and Gottlieb exploits those devices to
augment Todd's vocabulary throughout the novel. Todd is a model citizen, the
''village elder'' who dutifully swallows his pills, endures daily torments from
an obnoxious roommate and pines for his rich, distant brother who promises
visits that rarely come to pass. It's a familiar and depressing depiction of the
involuntarily committed, but Todd finds comfort in the routines and
mood-flattening meds.

Or he did. When a new, menacing ­orderly and an alluring, one-eyed patient
arrive, they throw his predictable peace into ­disarray. The tensions are
immediate and palpable. Mike Hinton, the new hire, wears a mullet and a
''mustache that drooped on either side like a picture of a Civil War general in
a magazine''; he reminds Todd of his dead, abusive father and capitalizes on his
trusting nature to take unforgivable advantage of another patient. The
mysterious and mysteriously eye-patched Martine Calhoun regales Todd with
stories of her past adventures and touts the benefits of a non-drug-­addled
mind. A strong and luminous young woman, she teaches him how to fake swallowing
his pills and gussies him up to meet her parents when they visit. Todd is
understandably bewitched. As his head clears and life at ­Payton starts to seem
more treacherous than he had ever noticed, a nascent thought takes hold: ''My
new Idea is that I leave, 'bye. My Idea is that I walk out of Payton and go home
to live.'' It's a simple, doomed plan, and it makes for fast and satisfying
reading.

Given Todd's autism, this novel will ­inevitably draw comparisons to Mark
Haddon's ''The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time,'' and for those
readers looking for another narrator with a pyrotechnic voice and hard-driving
obsessiveness, ''Best Boy'' will come up short. Todd is older and quieter, his
voice generally more restrained. Phrasings and descriptions do occasionally ring
false, mostly in places where the author seems to underestimate Todd's powers of
expression, but overall the narration is consistent and authentic. Gottlieb,
whose celebrated first novel, ''The Boy Who Went Away,'' also followed an
autistic character, writes Todd as high-functioning, articulate and innocent
despite intimations of a violent history. He recalls his tyrannical father
drinking like this: ''The bottle rose in his hand. It attached itself to his
mouth and his eyes shut while his throat made elevator movements.'' Cash
registers ''open like laughing mouths with bills where their tongues should be
and flashing numbers for eyes.'' In the hands of a lesser writer, such
observations could easily fall into cliché, but Gottlieb respects his narrator
too much for pandering stereotypes. Todd's is an engaging and nuanced
consciousness, so vital that the reader feels profound tenderness -- and
distinct fear -- as this sweet man ventures out into the world.

If there's a problem with Todd's perspective, it has less to do with execution
and more to do with strategy. Can this narrator put the content of his own
journey in a context that will reward the reader's attention? So few can.
McMurphy's story is enlarged by the meaning Chief imposes on it. Gatsby's life
resonates because of the affection and latitude Nick Carraway affords him. Could
Beloved tell her own story? Could Lolita? This isn't an issue of unreliability
-- Todd's account benefits immensely from those moments when he's least reliable
-- but rather a question of narrative positioning. The most moving and original
aspect of ''Best Boy'' is the vantage point from which Todd observes his life,
and yet, in translating that perspective for the reader, Gottlieb seems at times
to miss something crucial. That something might well be called wonder. Todd has
no one standing in awe of him, no one to bear witness to his actions except
himself. Maybe such isolation is part of Gottlieb's point, but because Todd
cannot apprehend the magnitude of his plan, the story can come off feeling
smaller and less trenchant than it is.

Ultimately, though, Todd's experience transcends the limitations of its
rendering. Gottlieb ties off the narrative threads in a loose but satisfying
knot, and he complicates Todd's family and innocent persona with revelations
from his past. This complexity is earned and pleasing, not least in how it
shines a new light on his brother's absence. A final surprise from Todd's dead
beloved mother is somewhat predictable but poignant, freighting the novel's last
pages with an affirming ache. ''Sometimes I think I'm forgetting about other
things on purpose,'' Todd says, ''so I can concentrate better on the remaining
memories I have of her in my head and on the atoms left in my lungs.''

Most everyone reads ''Cuckoo's Nest'' as an empowering and triumphant story of
sacrifice, but a darker, more realistic reading is equally possible. What if
­McMurphy was just one of Chief Bromden's delusions, as fantastical as the
imaginary fog? What if Chief never escaped at all? Kesey's novel opens and
closes in ways that suggest the narrator is telling McMurphy's tale from behind
the hospital's walls. Gott­lieb's fine novel -- like Todd's disorder -- doesn't
allow for any such ambiguity, and the clarity is comforting. There's no doubt
Todd flies the coop, and as ill advised as his flight might be, we stand on the
ground below, inspired and on the verge of awe, briefly enchanted by the
simplicity of his soaring.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/eli-gottliebs-best-boy.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PABLO AMARGO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); FICTION LITERATURE
(89%); WRITERS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); FILM GENRES (76%); NATIVE
AMERICANS (76%); LITERATURE GENRES (76%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); AUTISM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Irish Sport, All Its Own

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2088 words


KINVARA, Ireland --  Thirty men battle on a deep-green field, each one wielding
what looks like a field hockey stick moonlighting as a broken oar. They chase a
ball that fits snug in the hand, sometimes balancing it on their sticks as they
run, sometimes swinging the sticks in midsprint to arc the ball toward a goal's
uprights.

Bursts of ''Come on, lads!'' erupt from the sidelines, along with an epithet or
two, as the players bump shoulders, jab their sticks of ash and do everything
allowed to dispossess their opponents of the ball. These efforts, on occasion,
draw blood.

The workday is over, the evening sun is tumbling from the fish-gray clouds, and
a team from Connemara has traveled across Galway to play this match on a pitch
in Kinvara. To play hurling, a game as rooted here as the bone-white limestone
chalking the nearby hills.

The sport might be likened to a mash-up of lacrosse, field hockey and baseball,
but even the most strained analogy ''only gets you so far,'' said Paul Rouse, a
professor at University College Dublin who specializes in the history of sport.

''It's a game that combines skills that are not present in other games,'' Rouse
said.

In truth, hurling is a game all its own, at the highest levels a joyous and
ferocious ballet, danced on grass.

Tonight's two teams are at the lower ranks of Ireland's hurling structure. Even
so, the players from Connemara, in white and blue, and the players from Kinvara,
in purple and gold, catch, balance and drive the ball so effortlessly that man
and ash can seem as one.

''We've got everyone from students to tradesmen playing tonight,'' says Joe
Byrne, a onetime Kinvara hurler and former chairman of the Galway Hurling Board.
''We've a carpenter, a builder, a teacher, an accountant. There's an actuary and
a mechanical engineer. They're a representation of our community.''

Generations have aspired to move up from local clubs like these to play for
their county's senior team and vie for the All-Ireland championship -- an event
that captivates the country, even though hurling is more prominent in some areas
than in others. The entire sport, from this match in a rural field to the
intercounty final at Croke Park in Dublin, is an amateur endeavor.

The evening's game is part of the Cruinniu na mBad, Irish for ''gathering of the
boats,'' an annual celebration of the distinctive wooden sailing vessels called
Galway hookers. The winning team will claim possession of a glistening silver
cup and celebrate at the Pier Head Bar & Restaurant, down by the bay.

But this match is no ''friendly.'' No hurling match is. Players as young as 17,
and as old as the body can stand, swing their clubs for pleasure and for their
small cut of Ireland. Here in County Galway, this could be Abbeyknockmoy or
Moycullen, Ballinderreen or Clarinbridge, Athenry or Tuam.

Tonight: Inverin of Connemara against Kinvara, on a windy pitch that locals
created from a field of thorn and stone more than a half-century ago. Older
people in town recall being dispatched as schoolchildren to pick up the rocks.

How much is at stake was reflected before the start of the match, when the
players clattered in their cleats into a simple concrete building, Connemara in
this room, Kinvara in that room, for pregame pep talks. On the Connemara side,
players sat with hurleys in hand as their wiry manager, a school psychologist
named Rory O Bearra, encouraged them in the language of Irish.

Mark your men, lads! Catch the ball -- ball to hand! Move the ball quickly.
Short grip on the hurley. Hit the man or hit the space with the ball. Let's go,
lads, let's go!

Then out they headed to a verdant battlefield, where the men from Kinvara were
waiting.

Amateur Stardom

One of the best Galway hurlers ever was Gerry McInerney, who, as a boy in
Kinvara, practiced his swing while tending cows. A nationally prominent player
in the 1980s and early '90s, he was known for his fierce defense, distinctive
mullet and white cleats -- a rebellious fashion statement within the staid
Gaelic Athletic Association, the cultural organization that oversees Irish
sports.

''I got a few whacks, but nothing too bad,'' McInerney says. ''You'd get a few
staples, or some glue, and you'd be back in.''

While working construction in New York for several years, he commuted to Ireland
to play hurling, helping Galway win consecutive All-Ireland championships, in
1987 and 1988. Then back to the States, back to anonymous manual labor. The
glamorous life of an amateur sportsman, compensated only with expenses --
though, he says, ''You might get a couple of pints.''

McInerney is now the owner of a sporting-goods shop in nearby Oranmore. Asked
how he tried to explain hurling to Americans while living in the States, he
replies, ''I didn't.''

A wise decision, perhaps. In hurling, there are 15 players to a side, 35-minute
halves, ''blood'' substitutions -- exactly what it sounds like -- and an ancient
purpose: advance the ball to the goal.

This requires hitting the ball with the hurley, often while on the run, between
the uprights and over the crossbar, for 1 point, or under the crossbar, past a
goalkeeper and into the net, for 3 points. What happens in that pursuit is a
fearless athleticism of stops and starts, feints and sprints, bangs and bruises,
all with the wide-ended hurley stick used to balance, swing and block.

''I can't think of another game where somebody puts their hand in the air to
catch a ball -- while other men are swinging three feet of timber all around
them -- and successfully achieving it,'' Rouse said.

There is no protective padding. Helmets became mandatory only a few years ago.
And the absence of any distinctive names or numbers on jerseys underscores an
ethos of selflessness. A man's number reflects the position he plays -- 1 for
goalkeeper, 3 for fullback, 14 for full forward -- in service to his club, his
parish, his county.

More Than a Game

Blurs of men continue their hurley battle for a ball skittering across a Kinvara
field. The cool August air fills with the thwacks of ash, the grunts of amateurs
and the English-Irish exhortations to ''Come on, lads, come on!''

The Connemara team, from the Micheal Breathnach club in Inverin (named after an
early-20th-century Irish writer, in keeping with this country's celebration of
the word), is of a slightly higher ranking than Kinvara's, and its players are
in better shape. Still, Kinvara -- which also fields a team at a higher level --
keeps pace for the first half, its players taking their swings to send the ball
toward, and occasionally over, the uprights.

Kinvara's burly, black-haired goalkeeper, a production manager named Ollie
Bergin, is doing his best to thwart the Connemara attack. At 40, he is the
oldest man on the pitch, save for the referee, and he minds the net these days
because ''my legs are gone a little bit now'' -- though he still loves the whack
and clash.

''Well done, Ollie,'' his manager, a house painter named John Linnane, shouts
after a defensive play by Bergin. But his attention quickly turns to other
players.

''Get rid of it!'' he shouts. ''Get rid of it!''

O Bearra, the Connemara manager, is doing the same, sometimes in Irish,
sometimes in English. ''Be ready, Darragh!'' he shouts. ''Good lad!''

The game they play beats in the Irish pulse. The National Museum of Ireland has
an exhibit of hurling balls packed with cow hair and covered with pleated
horsehair. Preserved in the dark peat of time-stopping bogs, the balls have been
determined to be as much as 800 years old.

But hurling reaches back to a much earlier time, notably in stories of Cu
Chulainn, Ireland's mythological hero. He was said to have defeated a team of
150 boys single-handedly. He supposedly killed an attacking hound by driving a
ball down its throat. Legend has it that he could fling the ball long distances,
then throw his hurley to smack it in midair, driving the ball even further.

Through centuries of strife and English occupation, this Irish game somehow
survived. In the Middle Ages, for example, English law banned adoption of
various Irish customs, including hurling, ''from which great evils and maims
have arisen.''

For a while, the game enchanted the gentry, with landlords fielding teams to
play other estates. But they gradually distanced themselves from the game,
either having concluded that such Irish pursuits were beneath them or suspecting
that hurling smacked of rebellious nationalism.

The game's hold had loosened by the mid-19th century. The Roman Catholic clergy
disapproved. The police distrusted large gatherings. Some areas used matches to
settle scores. And the wholesale death and emigration caused by the Great
Hunger, the potato famine, darkened everyday life in places like Kinvara.

But in the early 1880s, Michael Cusack, a passionate and peculiar schoolteacher
from Carron in County Clare -- his childhood home is now a museum, not 15 miles
from here -- began championing Irish customs, at a time when English games,
especially cricket, were growing in popularity. His crusade coincided with a
renewed push by Irish nationalists for home rule.

Cusack saw hurling as something almost beyond sports, and he wrote about it with
unbridled reverie.

''A hurling match is like a city on fire, where the crackling of burning timber
and the hissing of the flames swell into the roar of conflagration,'' he once
wrote. ''We never heard sweeter music than that of the hurling field.''

He and others soon established the Gaelic Athletic Association, which provided a
nationwide structure for Irish sports based on parishes and territorial
boundaries, all with an implicit rejection of English ways. The G.A.A. model
created days of pleasure and competition to look forward to, but it also
nurtured a sense of self-worth -- a pride in place -- among local communities.

The game survived, and even thrived, in the destiny-determining decades that
followed, through the audacious acts of rebellion, the Irish War of
Independence, the civil war. Even the partitioning of Ireland did not stem
hurling's popularity among Irish nationalists living in the six counties that
remain a part of the United Kingdom.

''There is a genuine local rivalry in hurling,'' said Rouse, the sports
historian. ''True, there are extreme examples where it extends to bitterness and
violence, and occasionally, there are inherited fights. Usually, it is a
positive rivalry, which involves doing everything you can to beat your neighbor.

''Whatever it takes, within boundaries,'' he said. ''But afterward, you can
still drink a pint with them.''

A Struggle Unites

The sun approaches its Galway Bay immersion. The hills of the Burren, an
otherworldly landscape of limestone and flora, brood in the distance. The air
hints of the sea. And the men of Connemara and Kinvara do battle in the spirit
of Cu Chulainn.

Connemara has pulled far ahead, thanks in part to two balls driven under the
crossbar and into the net. But Kinvara, which won the tournament cup last year,
battles on, trying to live up to the halftime challenge posed by its managers in
the locker room.

You know yourselves they're going to stay strong! You're playing lovely hurley!
You don't want to give away the cup! Let's go lads!

Through the second half, Kinvara does its best, reaching high for the ball, then
arcing it into the half-light in hope of some magical spark to power its
players' legs and lengthen their drives. But the spark does not come; in its
stead, frustration.

A splintered hurley, a couple of calls for a trainer, a few shoulder bumps, and
then several scrums that seem incidental to the ball. The referee calls the
lopsided game a couple of minutes early, a decision that takes some by surprise.

When asked about it, he utters an obscenity understood in English or Irish. But
it is a smart call. Best to leave on terms in which battered hands can grasp one
another and shake.

In a couple of weeks, both teams will root together for their county, Galway, as
it fights the hurling powerhouse of County Kilkenny for the All-Ireland
championship in Dublin. They will cheer for neighbors, including 18-year-old
Conor Whelan, who was on this very grass the night before, practicing and
practicing his hurley moves, alone.

But tonight, they leave the Kinvara pitch together, driving down the
famine-haunted main street, past thorn and stone, pub and shop. To the Pier
Head, where the Connemara men sing songs in their native Irish, and sip from
their silver cup.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/a-passion-for-hurling-the-all-ireland-g
ame.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hurling teams from Kinvara and Connemara. Players use sticks
called hurleys to shepherd the ball toward the goal. (SP1)
Fans of Galway, in green, and Tipperary, in blue, outside Dublin's Croke Park
before an All-Ireland hurling semifinal match on Aug. 16. Senior teams from each
county vie for the title.
 TJ Larkin hewed ash to make hurling sticks, called hurleys, in Killimor,
Ireland. Boats arrived at Kinvara, below, during an annual festival. The
Kinvara-Connemara match is part of the celebration. A Connemara player, far
left, drank from a silver trophy after his team won. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAULO NUNES
DOS SANTOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIELD HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS &
RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); LACROSSE (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%);
COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BASEBALL
(70%); MARINE VESSELS (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); DRINKING PLACES (60%);
RESTAURANTS (60%)

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%)

COUNTRY: IRELAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Makeshift Bedrooms Need Not Apply

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 920 words


Last fall, Kelly Irvolino landed a job she very much wanted in the field of
interior design. ''This was a career move for me,'' she said.

Ms. Irvolino had been commuting to New York from her parents' house in Passaic
County, N.J., and was ready to move to the city, but knew she would need a
roommate to afford it.

''I didn't know anybody,'' said Ms. Irvolino, who works at the headquarters of
Innovations in Wallcoverings. ''I was scared of the Craigslist thing.''

Fortuitously, at her new job she met a woman who was also ready to move, Rachel
Smisloff, the company's showroom manager. Ms. Smisloff, who is from upstate New
York, was living in a two-bedroom in Stuyvesant Town with two others, paying
less than $1,200 a month for part of the living room. She was eager for a new
roommate situation.

''I felt like I was a mom and a maid,'' said Ms. Smisloff, who also knew she
could not afford a place on her own. ''Unless you are making $200,000, you can't
comfortably live alone.''

The women, who both have degrees in interior design, decided to team up and hunt
for an apartment to share, seeking a Manhattan two-bedroom for a top price of
$2,700 a month.

Ms. Irvolino, 30, still paying off student loans, limited herself to no more
than $1,200 a month. Ms. Smisloff, 28, was willing to pay $1,500. Everything
they saw in their price range was small and outdated -- ''not the vibe we
wanted,'' Ms. Irvolino said. She was horrified when an agent suggested they
convert a studio to a two-bedroom.

Nevertheless, ''I was more the realistic one,'' Ms. Irvolino said. ''I was
thinking about the cost. Rachel was scared she was going to be homeless, but I
didn't want her to keep raising her budget.'' Besides, in the worst-case
scenario, her friend could always temporarily bunk with her in her parents'
four-bedroom house in New Jersey.

Online, Ms. Irvolino found Jonathan Rogel, a salesman at Miron Properties. He
showed the roommates a walk-up apartment for $2,600 a month on East 33rd Street
in Murray Hill.

The women didn't mind the location, atop the Second Avenue Deli. But it was a
one-bedroom that, when converted or ''flexed'' into a two-bedroom, would have
stuck Ms. Irvolino, who would be paying less, with a space that was more hallway
than bedroom. ''It would have been fine if we were just out of college, but we
were adults and wanted something a little bit nicer,'' she said.

Farther uptown, a small walk-up building on East 62nd Street had three available
apartments. All were similar, with tiny second bedrooms. The price dropped as
the floors rose, with the ground-floor apartment renting for $3,150 a month and
the top floor for $2,750. All were offered with a half-month of free rent.

Ms. Smisloff objected to the noisy location, near traffic leaving the Queensboro
Bridge. The building was just five blocks from her workplace. ''It would have
been a great commute,'' she said. But she feared feeling confined if she lived
and worked in the same neighborhood.

They headed farther north. A walk-up building on East 92nd Street near Third
Avenue had two vacancies, one for $2,750 a month and the other for $2,800. Both
were on the fifth floor. The entrance was through a gated area where trash
containers were kept.

They preferred a sister building around the corner on Third Avenue, where two
apartments were also available, for $2,750 and $2,500 a month, again walk-ups on
the fifth floor. They planned to apply for the less expensive one.

But they objected to the strict credit requirements, which seemed excessive
because the landlord also required a guarantor. ''There were so many
documents,'' Ms. Smisloff said. ''It was absurd, the amount of paperwork
needed.''

Finally, they came to a two-bedroom in the East 90s for $2,675 a month, just
within their budget. This one was at the back of a walk-up building. Though the
living room was small and dark, the two bedrooms were big. One bedroom lacked a
closet, but the kitchen had new appliances and even a dishwasher.

It had just hit the market. ''If it is a good unit, they last maybe a day or
two,'' Mr. Rogel said. ''It had everything they were looking for at a price that
was reasonable.''

The roommates agreed. They didn't mind the views of brick walls and other
people's windows. ''You can kind of see your neighbors downstairs,'' Ms.
Smisloff said. ''There's a window in the bathroom, though it is basically facing
an air shaft.''

They left a deposit, lined up a guarantor, split the broker fee and arrived in
early spring.

Ms. Smisloff pays $1,500 a month for the larger bedroom. Ms. Irvolino pays
$1,175 for the smaller room; she uses the closet in the living room.

''Kelly is a clean freak like me,'' Ms. Smisloff said. ''We work well together.
I am so much happier.''

They endure some construction noise coming from a high-rise condominium going up
around the corner, but only in the morning. The building's superintendent lives
below them. ''He said, the only thing I ask you to do is not come home in the
middle of the night with heels on,'' Ms. Irvolino said. ''We have by accident
and he hasn't complained. We usually take our shoes off. I don't want to be
rude.''

Being so far uptown, ''we don't have many visitors but I don't care -- I'll go
anywhere,'' Ms. Irvolino said.

Their apartment, basic and nothing fancy, ''is perfect for two girls who are
never home.''

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.

Email: thehunt@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/upper-east-side-makeshift-bedrooms-
need-not-apply.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: East 62nd St.: A building that had a selection of places with
the requisite two bedrooms was in a noisy neighborhood.
East 92nd St.: The entrance was less than inviting, around the side past trash
cans. And the apartment was a fifth-floor walk-up.
Third Avenue: The prospective renters liked another two-bedroom, also on the
fifth floor, but not the red tape it involved.
East 90s: The views weren't the greatest, but everything else was pretty much
O.K. at a place with two large bedrooms and a workable kitchen.
 The Renters: Kelly Irvolino, left, and Rachel Smisloff at home in their
spacious new apartment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); COMMUTING (78%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES
(72%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Horizon

BYLINE: By DIANE DANIEL

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 143 words


Tasmanian Tour Ride & Seek, an Australian outfitter offering trips in a dozen
countries, has added a destination close to home: an eight-day hiking and biking
trip through Tasmania, the rugged island state off Australia's south coast.

Guests will explore a number of Tasmania's national parks (more than 35 percent
of the island is national parkland); mountain ranges, including Cradle Mountain;
and high-altitude lakes, like St. Clair and Dove. Wildlife viewing may include
Tasmanian devils, platypuses, kangaroos, wallabies, koalas and wombats.

Cultural stops include the 19th-century Port Arthur penal settlement, now an
open-air museum; and the Museum of Old and New Art, built into the side of a
cliff on the Moorilla Estate winery on Berriedale peninsula.

The tour leaves from Port Arthur on Jan. 23 and costs $2,575 per person with
double occupancy.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/hiking-and-biking-in-tasmania.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RIDE & SEEK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); HIKING (88%); NATIONAL
PARKS (88%); WILDLIFE (87%); LAKES (71%); WINERIES (67%)

STATE: TASMANIA, AUSTRALIA (95%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

As Murder Rate Rises, Washington Mayor Vows Action

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 341 words


The police in Washington on Saturday were investigating the fatal shootings of
two men the night before, the latest in a city that has seen a sharp increase in
homicides this year.

The increase, more than 40 percent from the same period a year ago, has put
pressure on the city's government, and its new mayor, to curb the violence.

The police identified the two young men killed in Friday's shootings as Omoni
Johnson, 26, and Shaheed James, 21. Officers heard gunshots at about 11:45 p.m.
in southeast Washington. Upon reaching the scene, they found that three men had
been shot. One was taken to the hospital, and the police said he was expected to
survive. They have not released that man's name.

Before the men were shot on Friday, 103 people had been killed in Washington so
far this year, according to the Metropolitan Police Department. During the same
period last year, the city recorded 72 homicides, 43 percent fewer than this
year.

This is Mayor Muriel Bowser's first year in office, and on Thursday, she
outlined a $15 million plan to address the rising tide of violence.

''I know that people want answers. Why is this happening?'' Ms. Bowser said.
While she cited an increase in ''synthetic drugs'' and the presence of a ''small
number'' of repeat violent offenders, she refused to provide a single narrative
or cause.

''We face complex challenges, which is why I stand here not to give you
half-truths or oversimplified answers,'' she said.

Ms. Bowser's speech was interrupted by protesters associated with the Black
Lives Matter movement, who erupted in boos when the mayor said she planned to
put more police officers on the streets of certain neighborhoods that have seen
the most violence.

Other cities have also struggled with an increasing number of violent deaths
this year. Chicago, for example, reported a 21 percent increase in its murder
rate by mid-August, and as of Friday, there had been 120 murders in New Orleans
this year, compared with 96 at this time last year, according to those cities'
police departments.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/us/as-homicide-rate-rises-washington-mayor-ple
dges-action.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (93%); SHOOTINGS (92%); MURDER (90%); VIOLENT CRIME
STATISTICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITIES (78%);
REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Julie Griffith, Leo Goodman

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 228 words


Julie Faulkner Griffith and Leo Philip Goodman are to be married Sunday by the
groom's brother, Stephen Goodman, who became a Universal Life Minister for the
occasion, at the Bear Mountain Inn in Bear Mountain, N.Y.

The bride, 32, who will continue to use her name professionally, is the director
of development in Manhattan for the York Theater Company, where she focuses on
foundation and corporate fund-raising. She graduated cum laude from George
Washington University and received a master's in performing arts management from
Brooklyn College. She is also the vice president of the board atManhattan
Theater Works.

She is the daughter of Kathy O. Griffith and Benjamin E. Griffith of Oxford,
Miss. The bride's father is the owner of the Griffith Law Firm there, and the
bride's mother works as the firm's office manager.

The groom, 34, is a sales trainer for Twin Towers Trading, which stages in-store
product demonstrations. He is also an actor and has appeared in plays at the New
York Fringe Festival.

He is a son of Deborah A. Goodman and Peter W. Goodman of Syosset, N.Y. The
groom's mother is a speech language pathologist, working with children either at
schools or at their homes in Long Island. His father is an associate professor
of journalism, media studies and public relations at Hofstra University in
Hempstead, N.Y.

The couple met on OKCupid.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/julie-griffith-leo-goodman.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); THEATER (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(88%); CHILDREN (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (76%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE
(75%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (70%); FESTIVALS (67%)

COMPANY: GRIFFITH LAW FIRM PC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%);
HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Trick to Acting Heroically

BYLINE: By EREZ YOELI and DAVID RAND.

Erez Yoeli, an economist, is a visiting scholar at Harvard's Program for
Evolutionary Dynamics. David Rand is an assistant professor of psychology,
economics and management at Yale.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 819 words


WHAT causes people to risk their lives to help strangers?

Recently, three young American men and a British businessman thwarted a gunman's
attack on a French passenger train, acting within seconds and at enormous
personal risk. When interviewed afterward, they stressed the unthinking nature
of their actions. ''It was just gut instinct,'' said one, in a characteristic
remark. ''It wasn't really a conscious decision.''

This turns out to be typical of heroes. Last year, one of us, Professor Rand,
together with his colleague Ziv Epstein, conducted an analysis of recipients of
the Carnegie Medal for heroism, which is awarded to those who risk their lives
for others. After collecting interviews given by 51 recipients and evaluating
the transcripts, we found that the heroes overwhelming described their actions
as fast and intuitive, and virtually never as carefully reasoned.

This was true even in cases where the heroes had sufficient time to stop and
think. Christine Marty, a college student who rescued a 69-year-old woman
trapped in a car during a flash flood, said she was grateful that she didn't
take the time to reflect: ''I'm thankful I was able to act and not think about
it.'' We found almost no examples of heroes whose first impulse was for
self-preservation but who overcame that impulse with a conscious, rational
decision to help.

It is striking that our brute instincts, rather than our celebrated higher
cognitive faculties, are what lead to such moral acts. But why would anyone ever
develop such potentially fatal instincts?

One possible explanation is that in most everyday situations, helping others
pays off in the long run. You buy lunch for a friend or pitch in to help a
colleague meet a tight deadline, and you find yourself repaid in kind, or even
more, down the road. So it's beneficial to develop a reflex to help --
especially because the cost to you is usually quite small.

It is also possible that there is a benefit to developing a reputation as
someone who helps without thinking: You are treated as more trustworthy,
precisely because you won't deliberate your way out of helping when doing so
entails considerable personal risk. For heroic instincts to arise this way, the
benefits must ultimately outweigh the costs -- including the risk of the very
rare but very dangerous situation (e.g., subduing a gunman).

Do they in fact outweigh the costs? To find out, let's consider a game theory
model called the ''envelope game,'' introduced last year in the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences by one of us, Mr. Yoeli, and two colleagues.

In the game, there are two players who interact repeatedly. In each interaction,
Player 1 has the opportunity to help Player 2. Helping Player 2 always carries
some cost for Player 1. While that cost is usually small, sometimes it turns out
to be enormous.

What makes the game interesting is that before Player 1 decides whether to help,
he has the option of opening a sealed envelope containing a description of the
cost to him of helping. Player 2, meanwhile, observes not only whether Player 1
decides to help, but also whether Player 1 opens the envelope -- that is, does
he think through the risk before deciding to help? Or does he just help without
thinking? Then Player 2 decides whether to continue the relationship (i.e., to
trust Player 1) or end it.

In what circumstances will Player 2 choose to interact with Player 1 only if
Player 1 doesn't look? And in what circumstances will Player 1 find it
worthwhile to cultivate the trust of Player 2 by not looking, even though this
risks incurring a huge cost?

The model shows that the tendency to help without looking wins out when: (1) the
cost of helping is typically small (so that the benefit to Player 1 of Player
2's continuing the relationship makes helping worthwhile on average), but is
sometimes so big that if Player 1 were to look at this cost he would certainly
not help; (2) if Player 1 doesn't help, this is really harmful to Player 2; and
(3) the long-term relationship is valuable to Player 1.

When such conditions are met, as they often are in real-life relationships,
instinctive helping beats stopping to think.

Much has been made of the military training of two of the Americans on the
French train, and the envelope game helps to explain why. While many heroes have
no military or other formal training, a sizable proportion do. The military
hones soldiers' cooperative instincts in an environment that has all of the
required characteristics: Soldiers occasionally find themselves helping others
at enormous personal risk; and they live, train and work together for relatively
long periods, during which they have plenty of opportunities to observe whether
a peer helps others without thinking.

Every day, decent folk do good. But as the recent heroics in France remind us,
heroes don't just do good -- they do good instinctively.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/the-trick-to-acting-heroically.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GÉRARD DUBOIS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); TRAINS (72%);
INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why We Love Crime

BYLINE: By CHARLOTTE GORDON.

Charlotte Gordon's most recent book is ''Romantic Outlaws: The Extraordinary
Lives of Mary Wollstonecraft and Her Daughter Mary Shelley.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 905 words


MURDER BY CANDLELIGHTThe Gruesome Crimes Behind Our Romance With the Macabre By
Michael Knox Beran265 pp. Pegasus Crime. $27.95.  Murder. Dismemberment. Rape.
Cannibalism. Jack the Ripper. The Newtown shooter. Why are we fascinated by
murders and murderers, by acts of evil and those who perpetrate them?

Tabloids, biopics and even dignified, well-researched accounts of serial
murderers indulge our appetite for real-life horror, dishing up the lurid
details -- the mutilated body, the serving woman found bleeding on her pillow,
the severed head floating downriver -- and sell millions of copies. But these
works usually leave the central, most troubling questions unanswered. Not only
the obvious ones: Why did the murderer commit this crime? Why did he (usually it
is a he) torture his victims or saw their corpses into pieces? But also the less
obvious ones, the ones we may not want to think about: Why do we read these
stories? Why are we drawn into the murder chamber? Wouldn't it make more sense
if we turned our backs, refusing to immerse ourselves in example after example
of cruelty?

This conundrum is precisely what most murder mysteries fail to answer, as
Michael Knox Beran explains in his fascinating new book, ''Murder by
Candlelight: The Gruesome Crimes Behind Our Romance With the Macabre.'' Just as
no back story of abuse can fully explain the genesis of a Son of Sam or a
Charles Manson, so too modern science and social theory are, he believes, ill
equipped to explore our preoccupation with horror, the nonmurderers' fascination
with the murderer, the innocent bystander's obsession with the guilty. Beran
asks us to consider our own hearts of darkness, why we're obsessed with murder
stories, why this obsession matters, and what it suggests about us as a culture
and a species.

These are challenging and complicated questions, and also questions that might
bog a book down. But this isn't the case with Beran's witty and engaging
narrative. Far from being a dry academic treatise, ''Murder by Candlelight'' is
at once psychological thriller and philosophical meditation, murder mystery and
literary analysis, written in elegant and pointed prose. Beran frames his
arguments within a recounting of some of the most notorious murders of the 19th
century, exploring how and why these tales are so fascinating. In one skillfully
wrought volume, he cleverly feeds our appetite for horror even as he probes this
appetite. He lets us contemplate our fascination at the same time we're
experiencing it, watching as he explores its origins philosophically,
historically and psychologically.

To begin with, he insists, great murders need great murder writers. Quotidian
prose, dry facts, sociological and/or economic analyses, medical explanations of
perversions or disorders -- none of these can get at the heart of horror. To
understand why murderers murder, we need to consult the great 19th-century
authors, using the likes of Thomas De Quincey, Thomas Carlyle and Sir Walter
Scott as our guides. These Romantic prose artists wrote about killings that
occurred during what Beran terms the golden age of murder, the period between
1811 and 1837. ''It is less the quality of the crimes,'' Beran writes, with
characteristic perspicacity, ''than the attitude of the age which determines the
gruesomeness of its murders.'' On a mission ''to understand the nature of evil
and to reinstate it in all its dark majesty'' as a fact of human nature, the
Romantics were fascinated by ''the horror that moves the soul.'' De Quin­cey
argued that only through ''sympathy'' can we see, as Beran puts it, ''how
certain killers, craving an intoxication they could experience in no other way,
murdered over and over again precisely in order to intensify an existence which
would otherwise have seemed to them insipid.''

Other eras have had their own terrible crimes and chroniclers, but the
19th-­century masters, in Beran's view, are extraordinary because they aren't
afraid to enter the terrible inner world of the killer. They tap into our
unconscious capacity for cruelty by employing the Romantic tools of empathy and
imagery, ''the language of the poets.'' He believes that in our own time, on the
other hand, murder has been ''antiseptically reduced to a problem of social
science.''

''It is very hard to look, closely and steadily, at something that is really
appalling,'' Beran writes, ''if you haven't in the back of your mind a
compensatory idea of goodness to buck you up.'' Without the hope of what he
terms an ''arch-­goodness,'' it's almost impossible to tolerate the idea of
absolute evil, and this points to the ultimate shallowness of modern conceptions
of murder. By turning murder into a puzzle to be solved or a socioeconomic issue
that can be fixed, we have trivialized and defanged our understanding of evil.

No matter how far we advance technologically, we're still stuck with human
nature. In a fascinating conclusion, Beran argues that the utopian visions of
Silicon Valley, ''where the cyber moguls are busy planning to live forever, or
failing that, for 500 years,'' are ''likely to breed new forms of Gothic
horror.'' Reason and science can't whitewash the human soul. In a hundred years,
no matter how perfect our homes and our vehicles, no matter how long our life
spans, we will still unfailingly and inevitably be human -- a conclusion that
''Murder by Candlelight'' exhorts us to remember.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/murder-by-candlelight-by-michael-
knox-beran.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Myers about to kill his wife in Sheffield, 1864
 from The Illustrated Police News. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); MURDER (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); MYSTERY &
SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%);
LITERATURE (72%); DRAMA FILMS (72%); WRITERS (72%); LITERARY CRITICISM (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Plays On Despite a Painful Loss

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 870 words


EDISON, N.J. --  Fathers and sons go together in golf like tee boxes and
drivers. Where you find one, the other typically follows. For many of the top
players, their fathers were the ones who breathed life into their golf dreams.
That was certainly the case for Ryan Palmer, a Texan who was 9 when his father,
Butch, introduced him to the game.

Golf helped cement the bond between Palmer and his father, who once played to a
6 handicap. It was the tool by which Palmer's father instilled in his son
lasting lessons about sportsmanship and self-respect.

In an instant, a parent-child tie almost 39 years in the knotting unraveled
horribly on a highway outside Palmer's hometown, Amarillo. On Aug. 19, Palmer's
father was killed in a sport-utility-vehicle rollover. He was 71.

Ten days later, Palmer shot his third consecutive sub-70 score, a five-under-par
65, for a 54-hole total of nine under at the Barclays, the first event in the
FedEx Cup playoffs. He was tied for fourth with Zach Johnson, the reigning
British Open champion, and Henrik Stenson, two strokes behind the leaders,
Sang-Moon Bae and Jason Day, who carded 63s.

Palmer's serenity in the face of all the resistance that Plainfield Country Club
has presented suggests that the father-son connection survived the crash on Loop
335, near the State Highway 136 exit.

''When I get inside the ropes, I get those four hours to not think a whole lot
about it and really try to play golf with some peace and comfort,'' he said.

The difference this week, compared with the others in this season in which
Palmer has recorded four top-10 finishes, is his concentration. He said he had
never been so keenly focused on each shot and so quick to refocus on the next.

''I'm always hard on myself, but I've not made one comment on one shot all
week,'' Palmer said, ''and I'm able to move on to the next hole and start the
next hole with a good shot, and I think that's been key for this week.''

A perfect example was the 16th hole. Palmer's second shot on the par 5 found a
greenside bunker, leaving him with a difficult stance for his next shot. With
his left foot in the sand and his right leg bent as if he were a jogger
limbering up in the goatee of grass above the bunker lip, Palmer swiped at the
ball, but it rolled back into the sand. He hit his next shot fat and two-putted
for a bogey 6.

''I'm telling myself, 'O.K., it's O.K., got a little bad break there,' but I'm
not letting those breaks or shots affect me,'' said Palmer, who rebounded with
two solid pars to keep himself in contention for a fourth PGA Tour title and his
first since the 2010 Sony Open.

The fingerprints of fathers were all over Plainfield Country Club. Bubba Watson,
who ended the round in third, one stroke off the pace, talked Friday about how
his father, Gerry, had showed him how to grip a golf club and then let him play,
never to bestow or suggest another lesson.

Day, who won the P.G.A. Championship in his last start, said his golf career was
made possible by his father's death. After his father died of cancer, Day said,
golf became the vehicle that steered him clear of the trouble he was finding
around every corner in his native Australia.

Two volunteers whose fathers imbued them with a love for golf walked with
Palmer's group. Ron Vincek, the scorekeeper, said his father, who is 90, played
once a week and called him every weekend from Florida to go over his round.

''What he shot and the whole deal,'' Vincek said. His father's goal, Vincek
added, is to have four generations of Vincek men, including Vincek's 9-year-old
grandson, play a round together. Vincek and the standard-bearer, Nick Rogus,
could not help putting themselves in Palmer's position and imagining trying to
battle both their grief and the course.

''We were marveling the whole time at what a great round it was,'' Vincek said.

The fans in the gallery were supportive, yelling, ''Go, Aggies,'' as Palmer, who
went to Texas A&M, made his way around the course. On the 18th hole, Rogus said,
somebody yelled, ''God bless your father.'' Palmer responded with a thumbs-up
sign.

''He was very, very appreciative to everybody,'' Rogus said. ''Just a great
guy.''

Palmer's caddie, James Edmondson, has spent the last few nights eating dinner
with Palmer and coaxing him to talk about his father.

''It's the elephant in the room; I'm not going to ignore it,'' Edmondson said.
He added, ''It's pretty cool what he's doing right now under the
circumstances.''

Edmondson said he worried that the time between Saturday's finish and Sunday's
start, roughly 20 hours, ''was going to be the hardest part.''

On Saturday night, Palmer's wife, Jennifer, was scheduled to join them from
Texas. After she watches her husband's final round, she is dragging Palmer to
the first two days of tennis's United States Open so she can see Roger Federer
play.

That drive to Queens will be scarier than any blind tee shot this week. Every
time Palmer gets behind the wheel, he thinks of his father.

''It's crept into my mind, for sure,'' Palmer said. ''There's no doubt about it.
I mean, it can happen fast. But unfortunate that it happened, and obviously
we're dealing with the pain as best we can.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/golf/ryan-palmer-plays-on-despite-a-pai
nful-loss.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ryan Palmer, whose father recently died, shot a five-under-par
65 and was tied for fourth at the Barclays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS KINNAIRD/GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%);
SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); SPORT UTILITY
VEHICLES (73%)

CITY: AMARILLO, TX, USA (58%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ON THE MARKET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1 words

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 76 BORGLUM ROAD, WILTON: A five-bedroom five-and-a-half-bath
house with a library and a pool, listed at $1,799,000. (203) 247-5891
560 CARTER STREET, NEW CANAAN: A four-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath 1840 house on
1.13 acres, listed at $1,275,000. (203) 979-1831
 170 SILVERMINE AVENUE, NORWALK: A five-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath 1789 house
with river views, listed at $792,500. (203) 866-1973 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUGLAS
HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The History of the Sweeney Building in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAK

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; F.Y.I.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words


Q. Many years ago, when I was still Mrs. Sweeney, our three boys in Brooklyn
Heights never had to ask us, ''Where did we come from?'' because the answer was
plain to see: the Sweeney Manufacturing Company, just to the right of the
Brooklyn Bridge. Alas, the sign is gone. What happened?

A. The Sweeney Building, at 30 Main Street in Dumbo (also known as 74-86 Water
Street), is now a condominium building.

According to the website Condopedia.com, the W. H. Sweeney Manufacturing Company
was founded by three brothers from Marysville, Ontario, who manufactured copper,
brass, nickel and silver kitchenware. The company erected the 12-story Brooklyn
building in 1908 (above left) and fully occupied it in 1913. According to the
website, the condo conversion was completed in 2003. The former industrial
building has 87 apartments, with higher-than-normal ceilings and oversize
windows.

As for the Sweeneys, they quit the manufacturing business around 1924 and began
a real estate company, according to the website.

Q. My husband, whose last name is Brennan, regularly jogs in Brennan Field in
Juniper Valley Park in Middle Village, Queens, which has a nice track and field
area. So naturally we are curious: Which Brennan was the field named after?

A. The field, dedicated in 1959, was named to honor John P. Brennan, a Fordham
University track star and Olympic team coach. A former police sergeant, Mr.
Brennan died in 1956 while he was on his way to watch one of the track and field
teams he coached. He was responsible for organizing the citywide track and field
program for the Police Athletic League, and several people he coached were
members of the 1952 and 1956 Olympic teams, according to an article in The Long
Island City Star-Journal that was sent by Christina Wilkinson, the president of
the Newtown Historical Society.

Juniper Valley Park has an unusual history. According to the Parks Department,
its name comes from Juniper Valley Swamp, which covered about 100 acres south of
Caldwell Avenue and was blanketed with junipers and white cedars. The 55-acre
park contains a 19th-century cemetery created by a farmer, Thomas Pullis; it is
one of the city's few surviving farm burial grounds. The park site also formerly
contained a 10-acre peat bog, whose partly decomposed vegetable matter, 16 feet
thick, was cut, dried and used for fuel during the Revolutionary War after the
British cut down most of the local timber for firewood and shipbuilding.

In the 1930s, New York City acquired the bog to settle a claim for back taxes
against the estate of the notorious Arnold Rothstein (1882-1928), the gambler
and racketeer who was accused of fixing the 1919 World Series. The city acquired
other parcels in Middle Village on which Rothstein had built 143 cheap houses in
hopes of reselling them for a quick profit. In the 1940s, the Work Projects
Administration transformed the land, which had included a former dump, into an
extensive athletic and recreational center, which has been kept green by
volunteers.

EMAIL: fyi@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/the-history-of-the-sweeney-building-i
n-brooklyn.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); TRACK & FIELD (89%); PARKS &
PLAYGROUNDS (87%); HISTORY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL
CONDOMINIUMS (75%); REAL ESTATE (72%); COPPER INDUSTRY (71%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (71%); ATHLETES (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); SPORTS TAMPERING (71%);
HISTORIC SITES (71%); SHIPBUILDING (71%); COACHES & TRAINERS (69%); REAL ESTATE
AGENTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (65%); CEMETERIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A $1,000 Day in Hong Kong for $100

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; FRUGAL TRAVELER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1194 words


The document in my email, set on elegant Four Seasons Hotel letterhead, was
entitled ''One Perfect Day in Hong Kong.'' It specified a one-day, $1,000 agenda
that included a Michelin-starred restaurant, a helicopter ride and a private
tour of Kowloon.

The document was from the hotel's concierge team, whom I'd contacted earlier
about my plan. After I arrived, Clementine King, a member of the team, went over
the specifics as I sipped an espresso by the infinity pool overlooking Victoria
Harbor, casting furtive glances at those around me as I tried to figure out who,
exactly, stays at a hotel with rates from $645 a night.

Probably the same sort of traveler who'd spend $1,000 in a day popping around
town. (Actually, 7,600 Hong Kong dollars at the time of my visit, at a rate of
7.6 Hong Kong dollars to the U.S. dollar.) My task would be to design a day that
was as similar as possible, but at one-tenth the cost. That would require
planning and tips from many friends, most notably, Daisann McLane, Frugal
Traveler emeritus (1998-2004), who gives private and small group tours through
her company, Little Adventures in Hong Kong.

I can't vouch for the high-end day, but the low end was a whole lot of fun.

Breakfast

High The Four Seasons agenda started at Lin Heung Tea House for dim sum. ''Dim
sum breakfast is cheap,'' Ms. King said. ''It's good bang for your buck.'' (Hey,
that's my line!) Her estimated cost: 150 Hong Kong dollars (about $20).

Low My breakfast was at Sing Heung Yuen, which Ms. McLane told me was one of the
few old-fashioned outdoor street cafes left in the city. It's also bucking the
trend of ever fancier shops on Gough Street in Sheung Wan. Those newer
businesses were still shuttered when I arrived at 8:30, as chattering families
filled the cafe's shared wooden tables. The cuisine is Hong Kong-style diner
food; I had a noodle soup thick with stewed tomatoes and topped with a runny
poached egg. Total bill, with iced milk tea and toast: 49 dollars (about $6).

Tour

High Ms. King said their usual tour guide was too expensive even for our $1,000
day (well, excuse me!) and suggested booking a two-hour tour of Kowloon through
the site Sam the Local, requesting stops at the Jade Market and a traditional
tea shop. Cost: about 400 Hong Kong dollars.

Low I used a local, too -- a local map. The one from Creative City costs about
$7 online and has sharply designed walking maps of six regions of the city, with
a bent toward the unusual or creative. I spent a few hours walking the Sham Shui
Po and Yau Ma Tei neighborhoods, both on the Kowloon side of the harbor. In
bustling Sham Shui Po, I stopped into a 200-year-old ''bonesetter'' shop, which,
according to the map, used to specialize in treating knife wounds.

In Yau Ma Tei, the highlight was a hidden spot called the Hong Kong
International Hobby and Toy Museum, with a collection that has everything from a
Bedouin doll to a toy version of Magnum P.I.'s Ferrari. Given a choice of
toy-themed 30-dollar entrance tickets, I picked the Mr. Potato Head. The woman
at the register held the ticket up to my face, comparing. ''Same person!'' she
said. (I'll take that as a compliment.)

Lunch

High The Italian three-course lunch or the Japanese bento box at Aqua, on the
29th  floor of a building overlooking the harbor. Cost: 500 Hong Kong dollars.

Low The comfortable tables on the roof garden of the IFC mall also have a view
of the harbor (though not a complete one). And you can bring your picnic from
any number of options in the mall. I went to City Super, a Whole Foods-ish
market, and bought a gluttonous amount of toro salmon and octopus sashimi, plus
Japanese beer, for 139 dollars.

Shopping

High Ms. King recommended the trendy Soho and Poho neighborhoods, including
antiques shopping and gallery hopping on Hollywood Road and into PMQ, a former
police housing complex turned beehive of local design and fashion shops, where
one could purchase a hand-painted silk scarf by Chailie Ho for 1,280 Hong Kong
dollars.

Low I explored the same neighborhoods, even stopping at Ms. Ho's shop. Ms. Ho
herself was there and showed me her colorful, dreamy chiffon and satin scarves.
She even made a sale -- not a scarf, but very frameable postcards with her Hong
Kong-themed paintings, 15 dollars a piece.

I extended my shopping to Sai Ying Pun, where I had read about a shop called Tak
Chong Sum Kee Bamboo Steamer Company that sells handmade bamboo (and wood and
rattan) goods. ''Old man make by hand,'' a worker told me. ''No young people
learning!'' I bought three wooden molds, one each in the shape of a fish, a
turnip and, hmm, a Reese's peanut butter cup inscribed in Chinese? They were 25
dollars each, and are now decorating my kitchen.

Views

High Hong Kong is not just a vertical city, it's an archipelago with extensive
green space. For a perspective from above, the Four Seasons agenda included a
15-minute helicopter ride with Heli Services for a mere 1,999 Hong Kong dollars
a person.

Low I headed up to the Peak, Hong Kong Island's famous panoramic lookout.
Instead of taking the funicular train to the Sky Terrace platform, which
involves long lines and a package fee of 83 dollars. I took Hong Kong's
impressive escalator system to the end and walked the rest of the way -- steep,
but not that grueling. Then I followed the trail that starts on Lugard Road to
take in a view of the city and its natural surroundings. (I took the train back,
28 dollars.)

Dinner

High Lung King Heen, the upscale but understated Cantonese restaurant, which has
three Michelin stars, on the fourth floor of the Four Seasons. Estimated cost:
2,600 Hong Kong dollars.

Low For a cheaper, more classic Cantonese dinner, two of Ms. McLane's tour
guides met me at family-friendly Ser Wong Fun. We ordered three dishes, starting
with a pig's lung soup, which had an arrestingly intense broth sweetened by
dried figs and dates. Stir-fried lotus root with lily bulbs and Chinese celery
was fresh and tender. And I found out that sweet and sour pork is a real
Cantonese dish made with hawthorn berries, far more restrained and fruity than
the cloying, gloopy version I'm used to. One-third of the bill was 122 dollars.

Nightcap

High One drink (plus service) at ''glamorous but relaxed'' Sevva -- ''so hot,
advance table reservations are necessary,'' according to the hotel document --
is 200 Hong Kong dollars. The day's total: 7,129 dollars (about $938), leaving
plenty for taxis.

Low I had over 200 dollars left, even discounting the several (very cheap)
subway rides I'd taken. And so my friend Conrad Lau joined me for splurgy,
celebratory gin and tonics for about 120 dollars at the hip, high-ceilinged gin
bar Ping Pong 129. But then it was back to frugality at the spot he had been
talking up, a Filipino karaoke club, down Li Yuen Street West, a dark alley in
Central. A couple of flights up the Fai Man building, we found a sign that said
Jovie's Karaoke, a loungey space full of Filipinos and Pakistanis, with free
karaoke. A bucket of six San Miguel beers was 100 dollars. My treat. Total:
727.5 dollars (including subways and other minor expenses), or $96.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the paved trail leading to the Peak from Lugard offers a
bird's-eye view of the Hong Kong skyline. Above, view from the trendy Sevva Bar
and Lounge in the Central District, which requires reservations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TIM MARTIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); US
DOLLAR (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); TEA (70%); CURRENCIES (68%);
HELICOPTERS (57%)

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011
HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Change for Flushing

BYLINE: By RONDA KAYSEN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 784 words


For much of the city's Asian community, the center of New York City is not in
Manhattan, but in downtown Flushing, Queens, the bustling shopping district at
the end of the No. 7 subway line. Soon this crowded commercial hub will grow
even busier as sales start early next month at Flushing Commons, a mixed-use
development that has been in the works for a decade.

The first phase of the 1.8 million-square-foot project will be finished in 2017,
delivering 148 residential condos as well as office condos and retail.
Eventually, the complex of more than five acres will house a total of 600
residential condos, an outdoor plaza and a new Y.M.C.A. facility. Completion is
scheduled for mid-2021.

Construction began last year on the site of a municipal parking deck between
Union and 138th Streets and 37th and 39th Avenues, snarling traffic and
isolating small businesses. Although the previously existing parking was
consolidated at an undeveloped portion of the site, prices have jumped to $3 an
hour from $1, vexing drivers and merchants. But supporters of the development
see the arrival of the glassy contemporary complex as a welcome addition to a
rapidly changing neighborhood, one that will deliver much-needed open space --
and ultimately increase parking spots to 1,600 from 1,100.

''Flushing is coming of age,'' said Michael Meyer, the president of F & T Group,
which is developing the $1 billion project with the Rockefeller Group and Aecom
Capital.

Flushing Commons will certainly alter the character of an area full of
mom-and-pop shops selling pork buns, noodle soups and herbal remedies. Prices
start at $650,000 for a one-bedroom with Swedish oak floors, quartz countertops
and Italian porcelain tiles. Among the amenities for condo residents: a dog
park, a reading room and Zen walking gardens. Two-bedrooms start at $850,000,
three-bedrooms at $1.2 million and four-bedrooms at $2.5 million.

The project is being marketed to Chinese buyers, particularly new arrivals. The
glossy residential brochure, translated into Chinese, highlights the area's rich
Asian culture, describing a place ''where deep-rooted traditions and the
authentic foods and flavors of your homeland blend seamlessly with a
multigenerational community.''

''Somebody that's moving from China, they're not going to want to live in the
West Village and eat at the Spotted Pig,'' said Helen Lee, an executive vice
president of F & T Group, referring to the popular Manhattan restaurant. ''It
makes no sense. They don't speak English.''

But the merchants toiling in the mostly Korean-owned shops along Union Street
see Flushing Commons as a threat to their livelihoods. Foot traffic has dwindled
since construction began, according to Ikhwan Rim, the president of the Union
Street Small Business Association, which represents about 150 businesses.

Shopkeepers also worry that once the project is complete, customers will favor
the upscale Flushing Commons shops and restaurants over the older businesses
nearby. Turnover has spiked since construction began, with about a third of the
150 businesses along Union Street replaced by new ones, said Mr. Rim, who owns
Rim's Fine Jewelry on Union Street. ''We're sitting ducks just waiting for
businesses to close down,'' he said. ''Your neighbors are one by one leaving and
it's not a good sight.''

Merchants also worry that the higher parking fees have cost them the customers
who plan to buy only inexpensive items like pastries or dumplings. But the lot
is now privately owned and rates were set according to an agreement between the
developer and the city. According to Mr. Meyer of the F & T Group, they are
below current market rate.

To alleviate the strain of years of construction, the city provided local
businesses with $2.25 million for marketing and other support. And the
Department of Transportation has taken steps to ease traffic congestion in a
transit hub that includes a subway station, a Long Island Rail Road station and
22 bus routes.

''The impact is there, so then the question becomes: How do we try to minimize
that or bring the community together to take on the challenge?'' said
Christopher Kui, the executive director of Asian-Americans for Equality, which
is managing the city funds for the businesses and has also provided about $1.5
million in microloans to 32 local businesses.

The temporary inconvenience, said Peter Koo, who represents Flushing on the New
York City Council, is a worthwhile price to pay for the addition of more
housing, a new Y.M.C.A. and a 1.5-acre plaza to the neighborhood. ''This is an
exciting development in our area,'' he said. ''It will create a lot of jobs and
a lot of tax revenue for the city.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/in-flushing-upscale-condos-and-reta
il.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rendering of Flushing Commons, a five-acre mixed-use
development planned for downtown Flushing, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CONWAY AND
PARTNERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%);
PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%);
PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); NEW CONSTRUCTION (78%); MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS
(75%); MEAT STORES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%);
EXECUTIVES (64%); HERBAL MEDICINE (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Retrospective of a Femme Fatale

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 189 words


Anyone who has seen Fritz Lang's 1953 crime noir ''The Big Heat'' will never
forget the image of Gloria Grahame, her face half-hidden behind a bandage and
prosthetic makeup, playing Debby Marsh, an abused gangster's moll. The role gave
Ms. Grahame, who specialized in portraying dangerous, damaged women, one of her
most pungent lines: ''You're about as romantic as a pair of handcuffs.''

From Sept. 4-8, the Film Society of Lincoln Center is presenting ''Gloria
Grahame: Blonde Ambition,'' a 12-film retrospective. High points include the
inside-Hollywood melodrama ''The Bad and the Beautiful'' (1952), and the
whodunit ''Crossfire'' (1947), which earned Ms. Grahame, playing an embittered
bar hostess, her first of two Oscar nominations for best supporting actress.

In ''Human Desire'' (1954), adapted from an Emile Zola novel, Ms. Grahame gave
one of her greatest performances as a vengeful femme fatale. Equally fine was
her portrayal of Laurel Gray, the sweetheart of a sinister screenwriter
(Humphrey Bogart) in the classic 1950 noir ''In a Lonely Place,'' directed by
Ms. Grahame's second husband, Nicholas Ray. (filmlinc.org.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/movies/gloria-grahame-blonde-ambition-a-film-r
etrospective-at-lincoln-center.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gloria Grahame in Vincente Minnelli's ''The Cobweb'' (1955).
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MGM/THE KOBAL COLLECTION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%);
DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); ACADEMY AWARDS (70%); WRITERS (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Baseball; Fan Dies After Fall

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 475 words


ATLANTA -- A man in his early 60s died Saturday night after falling more than 40
feet from the upper deck at Turner Field during the seventh inning of the
Yankees' 3-1 win over the Atlanta Braves.

After being attended to by fans and paramedics, the man was transferred to Grady
Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

According to eyewitnesses, a middle-aged man wearing a Braves cap stood up from
his seat in the second row behind home plate to boo the Yankees' Alex Rodriguez
when he was announced as a pinch-hitter. The man then seemed to lose his balance
and fell forward over several women who were seated in the front row.

He landed on a concrete walkway in the lower bowl of the stadium, not far from
where family members of Yankees and Braves players were sitting. Among the first
to respond to the man was Sherry McCann, who is the mother of Yankees catcher
Brian McCann and is a registered nurse.

The game continued, though the players, coaches and umpires soon became aware of
what had happened. A few of them had caught a glimpse of the man falling, and
many saw the screen behind home plate shake when the man clipped one of the
wires holding it up.

''That's really sad that something like that can happen at the ballpark,''
Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said before the man's death was announced.

It is the third reported death of a fan falling at Turner Field since 2008,
according to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.

In 2011, a fan died at a Texas Rangers game after falling to a lower level; the
man had been trying to catch a baseball that the Rangers' Josh Hamilton had
tossed to him for his son.

On Saturday, witnesses seated near the man in Section 401, in the upper deck
behind home plate, said the fall appeared to have been an accident.

''When A-Rod came up, he got up really quick and put his hands over his mouth to
yell something,'' said Donnie Marley of Fayetteville, N.C. ''I don't know if he
lost his balance, but he didn't slip. He just fell over. It was like something
you see in the movies.''

Marty Burns of Vernon, Ala., who was with his girlfriend, said: ''It was pretty
terrible to see. I just turned to look at her like, Did that just happen?''

Within seconds after the man fell, fans and then emergency medical technicians
came to his aid, and for more than five minutes they administered
cardiopulmonary resuscitation until he could be lifted onto a stretcher and
taken to a hospital.

The police then roped off the area near where the man had landed.

''It's devastating,'' said Brian McCann, who grew up in an Atlanta suburb and
played his entire career with the Braves until leaving as a free agent before
last season. ''Your hearts and prayers go out to the family. You're just praying
for the best.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/fan-dies-after-falling-from-up
per-deck-at-atlantas-turner-field.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS FANS (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%); PARAMEDICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES
(78%); FIRST AID (77%); EYEWITNESSES (76%); SPORTS OFFICIATING (73%); COACHES &
TRAINERS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (71%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (67%)

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER
PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING
(66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (55%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (52%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Elisabeth Evans, Daniel Holdaway

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 274 words


Elisabeth Walker Evans and Daniel Robert Edward Holdaway were married Saturday
at the home of the bride's maternal grandparents, Barbara and Allen Bullard of
Lake Geneva, Wis. Robert J. Klabunde, a municipal court judge in Genoa City,
Wis., officiated at a ceremony led by the groom's father, Graham M. Holdaway,
who offered a fusion of an Apache wedding blessing and a Gaelic blessing.

The bride, 30, will continue to use her name professionally. She works at the
White House as the associate director for health and health care in the Office
of Public Engagement and is a senior policy adviser on health to the Domestic
Policy Council. She graduated from DePauw University.

She is a daughter of Jane Bullard Evans and Timothy J. Evans of Evanston, Ill.
The bride's father is the executive director of the Northlight Theater Company
in Skokie, Ill., and a founder and partner at Steppenwolf Films, part of
Steppenwolf Theater in Chicago. Her mother is the manager of the Chicago
showroom of Edelman Leather, a leather supplier and design company.

The groom, 32, is a research scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., where he develops
computer-based models used for weather prediction. He graduated from the
University of Exeter in England, from which he also received a master's in
computational science and modeling and a doctoral degree in mathematics.

His parents, who live in Shaftesbury, England, retired from St. Mary's School, a
boarding school for girls in Shaftesbury, where his mother, Susan M. Holdaway,
was an English instructor and his father taught mathematics.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/elisabeth-evans-and-daniel-ho
ldaway.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUNCAN WOLFE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (77%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); MODELING &
SIMULATION (72%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (71%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (71%); SPACE
EXPLORATION (71%); MATHEMATICS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); THEATER & DRAMA (68%);
THEATER COMPANIES (68%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (66%); EXPERIMENTATION &
RESEARCH (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); SINGLE SEX
EDUCATION (64%); THEATER (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (55%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE
ADMINISTRATION (55%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cooking the Indian Kaleidoscope

BYLINE: By STEVE REDDICLIFFE

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | ELMSFORD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1038 words


In 1998, when Peter Beck was the chef at the Indian restaurant Chola in
Manhattan, Ruth Reichl, then The New York Times's restaurant critic, regarded it
highly enough to give it two stars.

In 2010, when Mr. Beck was the chef at Tamarind Tribeca, the Times critic Sam
Sifton gave that restaurant two stars.

This column does not use that rating system, but the Very Good for RaaSa in
Elmsford, where Mr. Beck is now the chef, is undoubtedly two-star territory.

''One of the most appealing aspects of Chola is the sheer breadth of the menu,
which allows you to take an edible tour of India,'' Ms. Reichl wrote in her
review, and Mr. Beck has carried that concept to many of his kitchens (he also
was the chef at Benares in Midtown Manhattan, whose website still credits him
with its menu).

At RaaSa, he said on the phone after my visits, ''I'm trying to bring regional
food from every state so that people know there is another side to Indian
cuisine'' beyond the more familiar dishes from the northern part of the country.

Mr. Beck is particularly interested in seafood. ''I try to promote the coastal
regions'' of India, he said.

So let's start there, with perfectly seared kalonji scallops, their natural
sweetness balanced by a tomato chutney made with peppery onion seeds (the
kalonji of the title). Or begin with one of Mr. Beck's signature dishes, Chennai
jhinga, with flavorful shrimp atop a pancake made with rice and lentils and
dressed in a sauce of coconut and avocado that somehow manages to be
simultaneously light and rich. (There's no reason I can think of not to order
both.)

For a seafood entrée, Mr. Beck marinates branzino and cooks it on medium heat on
a griddle called a tawa, which gives the fish a crisp exterior while keeping it
moist; he serves it with a lively tangle of peppers and onions along with
haricots verts and roasted potatoes. It's a terrific plate of food.

There's more of that good shrimp in one of the biryanis served here (prepared in
the traditional Hyderabadi way, with a pot-pie-like dome of pastry over the
fragrant rice), and on a substantial mixed tandoor plate that also features
salmon, lamb sausages, and chicken (boneless pieces of which had a mealy texture
usually attributable to too much time in a marinade).

Mr. Beck also emphasizes vegetarian dishes at RaaSa, including his bright
version of lasoni gobi (cauliflower florets in a bustling sauce) and ambiya
tikki, the tasty cakes of roasted beets and mango that have been an essential
entry on a number of his menus (the recipe is his creation). The sauce for the
former includes ginger, garlic, green chiles, roasted cumin powder and, for a
hit of sourness, a little vinegar; the latter is seasoned with coriander,
ginger, garlic and ajwain, a sharp counterpoint to the lush fruit.

Mr. Beck is a spice maestro who seems to know exactly when to turn up the heat.
Case in point: the eggplant dish from Hyderabad called baghara baigan, the sauce
for which includes peanuts, fenugreek seeds, sesame -- so far, so good -- and,
playing the role of an accelerant, roasted whole red chiles.

A friend I was dining with took several bites and appreciatively proclaimed,
''This is another level.'' (I believe the technical term would be: Smokin'!)

Other enjoyable entrees are not as bold, though none I had were shy: the
moderately hot lamb dish aatu kulambu, in a gravy with red chiles; the korma
lazeez, chicken in a sauce with saffron and crunchy cashews; and a delicious
version of the Mangalorean dish kori gassi, buttery chicken cooked with coconut,
curry leaves and star anise.

This incarnation of RaaSa opened in March; Priya Kapoor-Salian and her husband
Ashok Salian are the owners. She grew up in Chappaqua; he grew up in a
restaurant family in India. They met Mr. Beck when all three worked at Tamarind
Tribeca. Much of the remodeling of a building that housed a restaurant called
Malabar Hill was done before Ms. Kapoor-Salian and Mr. Salian took over; they
redid the chairs and got rid of the wallpaper save for the stuff that looks like
bookshelves (and which could be the library if you want to play an outsize
edition of Clue).

It's a comfortable room with well-spaced tables and plenty of light from large
windows (though it should be said that service does not yet match the quality of
the food -- it's friendly but jumbled).

There's roster of pleasant wines by the glass, beers on tap and, to start a
meal, a very good ginger-lime martini (the cocktail list is the work of Mr.
Salian).

To end, there are Mr. Beck's takes on traditional Indian desserts, including the
deeply sweet yogurt dish called shrikhand. He also turns out a delightful disc
of kubani double mitha, the Hyderabadi apricot bread pudding, here served with
whipped cream and dabs of apricot jam.

It's nothing really complicated, but after a meal of memorably vivid flavors,
it's the right kind of cool.

RaaSa

145 East Main Street, Elmsford914-347-7890raasany.com

Very Good

THE SPACE: Contemporary dining room with a constellation of copper-colored orbs
hung from the ceiling. Wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD: Couples and considerably larger assemblages, all casually dressed.
Service is welcoming but inconsistent; hovering one night, sometimes inattentive
another. Staff can be antsy to grab unfinished plates; stay strong.

THE BAR: Wine and beer available by the glass. We were fine with the 2013 Ponga
sauvignon blanc from New Zealand and the 2013 O. Fournier Urban Uco malbec from
Argentina (both $10, about the retail price for bottles of these wines). The
Indian beer Kingfisher is on tap, as is Captain Lawrence I.P.A. from the other
side of town (small, $5; large, $8). Interesting cocktail list.

THE BILL: Dinner appetizers, $8 to $14; entrees, $12 to $25; desserts, $7 to $9.
Portions are bounteous.

WHAT WE LIKED: Kalonji scallops, Chennai jhinga, lasoni gobi, ambiya tikki,
baghara baigan, aatu kulambu, korma lazeez, kori gassi, masala tawa, shrimp
biryani, kubani double mitha.

IF YOU GO: Lunch: Mondays to Sundays, noon to 3 p.m. Dinner: Mondays to
Saturdays, 5 p.m. to 10 p.m.; Sundays, 5 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Reservations
accepted. Free parking in lot.

RATINGS: Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fair, Poor.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/restaurant-review-the-diversity-of-in
dian-cuisine-is-at-raasa-in-elmsford.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Indian seafood dishes have a particular interest for the chef.
Far left, the kubani double mitha, a Hyderabadi apricot bread pudding
 left, the kalonji scallops. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREGG VIGLIOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHENNAI, TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Secret Is in the Smoke

BYLINE: By PHOEBE NOBLES

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | NEW JERSEY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1032 words


What sensation the word barbecue evokes depends on the region you have in mind.
Texas barbecue summons the smell of mesquite smoke, the brawn of beef. Think
North Carolina and get a whiff of vinegar, the crackle of a pig on a spit. The
meat may be fine in Georgia, but what I remember is those bags of sliced white
bread. Now close your eyes and consider what the following phrase conjures: New
Jersey barbecue.

Drawing a blank? Let that be the slate on which you pile pulled pork at Hambone
Opera in the Trenton Farmers Market. Or let the brisket at Big Harlie's BBQ in
Sayreville inform your dawning regional pride.

Hambone Opera's menu is short: pulled pork, brisket, smoked chicken (in
sandwiches or by the pound), baby back ribs and sides of smoke house beans and
slaw. Any of the succulent, wood-smoked meats here is worth the trip, from New
York City or from Texas. I might come to eat the beans alone -- they are smoked
for five hours with five kinds of peppers, seasonings and a bit of brisket.

Hambone's chef, Jeffrey Lee McKay, who grew up smoking fish along rivers in
Central Michigan, said he aimed to ''put New Jersey on the map'' of barbecue.
Mr. McKay began to figure out the ways of wood smoke thanks to a job delivering
wood to restaurants in the Dallas area. He draws on various regional traditions
-- a Texas-inspired focus on meat will not stop him from adding the Carolina
dash of vinegar. But Mr. McKay maintains that this Jersey barbecue's taste of
terroir comes from the blend of wood he uses to smoke meat. In another region he
might use pecan or mesquite, but here he depends on Jersey wild cherry wood,
blended with hickory and sometimes maple.

The name Hambone Opera comes from the guitar-playing, beer-drinking sessions Mr.
McKay used to have with buddies in Texas. When asked about his method for
smoking meat, he responded in song: ''I get up bright and early, at work just
about six / I start my fire burning with wild cherry sticks.''

Mr. McKay has gained a following smoking meat in his blackened steel ''stick
burner,'' but the shiny new commercial smoker in the lot behind Hambone Opera
also produces impeccable results.

I remember appreciating the sign outside a venerable Austin barbecue place that
read, ''Need no teef to eat my beef.'' Hambone Opera's brisket, pulled pork and
smoked chicken are indeed tender enough to inhale, though the rolls from local
Franca Bakery stand up to a gentle squeeze, and the ''fixins'' -- white onion,
jalapeños, banana peppers and pickles -- provide crunch. The coleslaw is crisp,
not too mayonnaisey, and spiked with celery seed. Baby back ribs, though, are
not a baby food. The pleasure and the point of the rib is in the chew. These
ribs are tender and fatty, but not without resistance. Mr. McKay gives them the
''snazzle'' -- their sheen and crackle -- by brushing on spicy sauce after they
have hit a hot grill. There is hardly a need for more sauce, mild or spicy, once
the rib, or any of the sandwiches, is in hand.

Mr. McKay said that multiple businesses had failed in the Trenton Farmers Market
space where he opened in April 2013. Having sunk all he had at the time into the
restaurant (''I had nothing but a pickup truck and a hog-and-chicken roaster''),
Mr. McKay was looking for a sign from God that things might pan out. The sign
appeared scrawled on a bathroom stall at the market: the words ''ham'' and
''bone'' spelled out in bone-like lettering with a magic marker. Business has
been going strong.

Good barbecue, it seems, can redeem an unlikely spot. Harlie Pankey III, who
with his wife, Sylvia Pankey, owns Big Harlie's BBQ, also said that previous
businesses occupying the site of his Sayreville restaurant had failed
prematurely. This stretch of Raritan Street, with its water tower and auto parts
dealer, is less than scenic, but since opening in October 2013, Big Harlie's has
become a draw. Mr. Pankey, who has been cooking for events since 2005, said that
Big Harlie's is known for its pulled pork and ribs, but the standout was the
brisket. A heap of brisket had a variety of textures: black, crackling tips,
melting morsels of fat, and meat that requires teeth.

Big Harlie's runs in the North Carolina tradition but has distinct New Jersey
origins. Mr. Pankey grew up in Norfolk, Va., but only took to the open pit once
he joined Sylvia and her family in New Jersey -- her father, from Keyport, was
an enthusiast. Ms. Pankey created the recipes for traditional sides, like the
four-bean baked beans, coleslaw and candied yams, all of which lean to the sweet
side. The collard greens have a straightforward simplicity and retain a good
deal of texture.

Mr. Pankey and his head chef, Ralph Lee, smoke their barbecue meats both with
wood (Mr. Pankey guards the secret of what kind) and charcoal. The key to their
brisket is the time it spends in the smoke: 14 to 16 hours. Thirty-six slabs of
ribs, for comparison, can cook in two hours.

Meanwhile, down in Trenton, Mr. McKay is selecting logs for the fire, singing:

Hambone's cooking brisketHambone's cooking ribsJuices like a riverNow daddy
wears a bib.

So tuck in, New Jersey. Barbecue is yours.

Hambone Opera

Trenton Farmers Market960 Spruce Street, Lawrence
Township609-325-7357hamboneopera.com

THE SPACE: Very casual, with friendly counter service and a few tables within
the Trenton Farmers Market. Seats 20. Wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD: Farmers Market shoppers and barbecue enthusiasts.

THE BAR: Bring your own.

THE BILL: Sandwiches or platters, $8 to $11; meat by the pound, $11.99 to $16.

IF YOU GO: Thursdays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Dine in or take out.
Catering available.

Big Harlie's BBQ

506 Raritan Street, Sayreville732-727-1110bigharliesbbq.com

THE SPACE: No-frills dining room with giant TV for décor. Friendly counter
service. Seats 55. Wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD: Families and groups of young men.

THE BAR: Bring your own (liquor store next door).

THE BILL: Lunch specials, $7.95; barbecue dinner plates, $11.95 to $17.50.

IF YOU GO: Sundays, Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 11:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.;
Fridays and Saturdays, until 9 p.m. Dine in or take out. Catering available.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/new-jersey-barbecue-joints-find-their
-secret-in-the-smoke.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: the Trenton Farmers Market, home to
Hambone Opera
a plate of brisket, pulled pork and ribs
Jeffrey Lee McKay, Hambone's chef
baked beans
a plate of ribs at Big Harlie's Barbecue
pulled pork
 Harlie and Sylvia Pankey, who own Big Harlie's. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT RAINEY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORK (90%); MEATS (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (75%); RESTAURANTS
(74%); BAKERIES (71%)

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); NEW
YORK, NY, USA (75%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW
YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Flavor Bombs From a Storm-Tossed Chef

BYLINE: By SUSAN M. NOVICK

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | LONG BEACH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 903 words


Lost & Found, a culinary hideaway tucked among the rowdy bars of Long Beach's
West End, can be hard to find. During the day, the blinds are drawn, the phone
goes unanswered and the only sign of life is a discreet stenciled logo on the
front window.

But when the doors open at 5:30, the tiny restaurant exerts its own quiet pull
on the neighborhood, drawing in local foodies who vie for hard-to-get
reservations and take their chances as last minute walk-ins. To hear some of the
regulars tell it, the harder it is to find, the better they like it.

''We're local and we're proud of this place,'' Margi Bellusci said on a recent
night out with her husband, Bob. She applauded the creative New American
cuisine, a departure from the burgers, wings and fries that characterize pub
food in Long Beach. ''We're really excited but we're trying not to tell
anybody.''

Despite Ms. Bellusci's best efforts, word of mouth has already made Lost & Found
a favorite comeback story in this seaside town, where efforts to rebuild and
recover from Hurricane Sandy continue.

Before the October 2012 hurricane, Alexis Trolf, 36, was the chef and a co-owner
of Caffe Laguna, an Italian restaurant that was destroyed by the storm.

A couple of years later, ''as chance or luck would have it,'' he said, he
finally found a little place just across the street. In January, Mr. Trolf
opened Lost & Found, what he called ''a mom-and-pop shop,'' offering something
new for the neighborhood: A globally inspired small-plates menu that changes
with the seasons.

Presiding over a modest open kitchen, Mr. Trolf, often in casual shirts and a
chef's apron, performs nightly (except Tuesdays), sharing recipes and stories
with patrons as he drizzles a briny gribiche sauce on fennel-powdered sea
scallops, or meticulously slices a dry-aged rib-eye steak.

''It's almost as if I'm having people over at my house and I'm cooking in my
kitchen,'' he said, offering a nibble of braised pork belly, silky and
succulent, to the four patrons seated at the ''chef's counter'' on a recent
evening. A sliver of pastrami-spiced pumpkin swordfish followed.

''Sometimes I like to play a guessing game: Taste this and tell me what you
think it might be. People have come to expect a little bit of shock and awe when
they come in,'' he said. ''I think everything should be this flavor bomb and it
should amaze from the first bite to the last.''

Highly spiced and flavor-packed, these dishes are well-suited to a small-plates
format where less is often more. Two dishes per person are recommended and
sharing is encouraged. Adventurous diners should be amply rewarded.

Highlights on a recent visit included charred octopus paired with ceci beans and
a refreshing romesco sauce; and a perfect duck breast topped with blueberry
agrodolce with a side of spice-dusted fingerling potato chips. The fig and
arugula salad was bright and vivid (and big enough for two), laced with gossamer
slices of jamón Serrano, shaved kohlrabi, melon and Marcona almonds.

A few tastes of the rich tuna poke, a traditional Hawaiian sashimi-style dish,
marinated in soy dressing and roasted pumpkin seed oil; or skate wing schnitzel,
a riff on Mr. Trolf's Austrian heritage, salty with capers and white anchovy,
make fine conversation starters. Take a bite and pass it around, to your table
or your neighbor's. Discuss.

Each night, an expectant crowd arrives at the informal, rustic space; some in
sandals, shorts and sundresses from the beach, others in seersucker suits. Most
carry a favorite bottle of wine (the bring-your-own policy, with no corkage fee,
will continue until a beer and wine license is approved).

Greeted by a friendly, informative wait staff, customers settle in at tiny
tables for two, a communal table for eight, or one of a handful of counter
seats. Dining room décor features a wild boar head mounted on a wall the color
of driftwood; daisies and votive candles brighten the room. An eclectic musical
playlist buoys the festivities.

Often the menu is entirely new, so expect changes when autumn comes. The only
permanent items are truffle rustic potatoes (a Lost & Found staple by popular
demand) and the two large plates: a hefty dry-aged rib-eye, and a whole
chili-lime roasted chicken that makes your mouth buzz and hum with spice.

Daily dessert specials are well worth exploring, too. Jamie O'Rourke, the pastry
chef, has a masterful way with chocolate panna cotta (one bite will not do) and
a light-as-air key lime pie that should not be missed.

It may be off the beaten path, but Lost & Found is a real find.

Lost & Found

951 West Beech Street, Long Beach516-442-2606facebook.com/LostandFoundLBNY

THE SPACE: An easy-to-miss storefront, with a casual, rustic interior, anchored
by a communal table and a small open kitchen. Seating for 25. Wheelchair
accessible.

THE CROWD: Casually dressed couples and small groups of friends. The young
servers are friendly, informal and knowledgeable about the menu.

THE BAR: Bring your own.

THE BILL: Small plates between $9 (truffle rustic potatoes) and $20 (duck
breast); large plates (for two): $45 (chili-lime chicken) and $70 (dry-aged
rib-eye). Desserts, $8 to $10. Cash only.

IF YOU GO: Dinner only: Sundays, Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 5:30 to 10
p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, until 11 p.m. Reservations are strongly recommended
and hard to get; expect a three-week wait or longer.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/restaurant-review-lost-found-in-long-
beach-has-a-chef-who-goes-for-the-flavor-bomb.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alexis Trolf opened Lost & Found opposite the site of his
Italian restaurant that was destroyed by Hurricane Sandy. Clockwise from top
left: the charred octopus, the dry-aged rib-eye steak, the vanilla pot de crème
with raspberry sauce and sesame brittle, and a dinner party in the rustic space.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); HURRICANES (78%);
FOODIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); PORK (68%); HURRICANE SANDY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Shining Tastes of Spain

BYLINE: By RAND RICHARDS COOPER

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | HARTFORD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1021 words


I recall the island of Majorca in Spain from a long-ago visit -- blaring azure
vistas, vertiginous roads and vaguely racy-sounding villages (Fornalutx) where
tiny cafes served exciting food: raw and peppery sobrasada, eggplant
ratatouille, roast suckling pig and lots of olives, almonds and garlic.

Tapas are sociable nibbles whose small size, a Spanish writer once put it,
conveys ''the respect shown the meal awaiting at home.'' Traditionally, this was
barhopping food meant for a quick, convivial eat-and-run. But in the United
States, the dedicated tapeador (one who enjoys tapas) makes a full evening of
it. At Majorca, a restaurant in Hartford, the flexible tapas concept conjures
the riches of a Mediterranean culinary crossroads.

Majorca opened in January, and its owners, Rich Perez, Rachel Markoja and Bernie
Gorski, have hardly altered the rustic industrial interior of the former O'Porto
restaurant in the old Columbia Bicycle factory. With brick walls and copper and
burgundy color accents, it's attractive, though a bit dark, especially for a
restaurant named for a sunny Mediterranean island.

I was sorry not to see certain standard tapas (no empanadas or tortillas?). But
the menu by Mr. Gorski, a chef with two decades of experience in the Hartford
area, contains plenty of deft touches, like the curlicues of orange peel adding
dash to a dish of mixed olives. Pan Catalan surrounds slices of grilled bread in
a welter of halved grape tomatoes and manchego that is less shaved than slabbed.
Grilled squid, nicely blackened on the edges, came partnered with a radish, a
cucumber and green pepper julienne, and cilantro, jalapeño and a touch of lime
juice. Grilled shrimp bore a bright green herbed garlic paste. Papas fritas were
an enormous pile of American-style shoestring fries, graced with a truffle aroma
and grated manchego.

There were a number of misfires. Rice croquettes, while densely cheesy and in
the yellow color of saffron, were bland. Same with the mejillones salteados,
mussels sautéed in wine and garlic, which lacked seasoning. Some dishes missed
the right balance of elements, like the baked stuffed eggplant, with a roasted
pepper sauce not feisty enough for the hefty blob of goat cheese within.

Dishes were better on the meaty side of the roster. Duck confit, served on a bed
of lentils and diced carrots, was browned to near crispiness, and richly
flavorful. Mr. Gorski rubs the pork ribs with smoked paprika, ginger and
coriander, lets them sit for two days, slow-cooks them overnight and then adds a
mango barbecue sauce spiked with jalapeño. Tender and robust, the ribs were
superb with wilted greens and marinated red onions on pearled couscous.

At its best, Majorca presents flavors that are both dense and interesting. A
salad combined the stony sweetness of red beets with salty prosciutto,
almond-studded goat cheese and bitter arugula. Sliced grilled chorizo came atop
a thick succotash of grilled local heirloom tomatoes, corn, green pepper and
zucchini, along with bits of okra (severely undercooked, alas). Papas rellenas
-- stuffed baby gold potatoes -- looked like giant button mushrooms, the
ground-chicken stuffing infused with Moroccan spices. Mingled with golden
raisins, topped with herbs and shaved almonds and amplified by a ginger-tomato
coulis, it was a superlative combination -- sweet, tangy and alluring.

We could have made a night of small plates alone, but in the tapas tradition --
respecting the meal to come -- we moved on to main courses. A hearty hanger
steak came as chunks of grilled beef across wilted spinach and roasted quartered
new potatoes. For good measure, breakfast was added: chunks of ham and a fried
egg with a Hollandaise-like saffron-basil sauce.

The short rib -- braised for 12 hours and laid over creamy truffled polenta,
with caramelized onions and a rich Rioja reduction -- was a majestic taste bomb.

Almost as good was the Andalusian caldoso, a version of paella. It was a big
white bowl overfilled with clams and mussels, chicken and chorizo in a
paprika-tinged, brothy rice loaded with garlic, tomato and cilantro. It was
fresh, good, hot and a lot.

The homemade desserts included a pineapple tort drenched in salted caramel and a
deconstructed tarte Tatin with mango, bringing a tropical accent.

Service at Majorca was friendly but erratic. Timing one night was off, with
lengthy waits between courses that left us feeling neglected. Another night, I
dined alone and sat forever waiting to order. But in the end, such glitches
don't spoil the fun in a restaurant that brings the romance of a Mediterranean
island to your table.

Majorca

2074 Park Street, Hartford860-231-1003majorcact.com

Good

THE SPACE: Seating for 150, not including the bar, in a repurposed factory with
brick walls, dark wood, exposed ducting, moonlike overhead lamps and matching
wall sconces. Wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD: Couples; the restaurant is quiet and relaxed, even when crowded.

THE BAR: Seats for 25 at the bar, and 16 at tables. Happy hour Mondays through
Saturdays, 3 to 6 p.m., includes $4 beers, $5 cocktails and $5 tapas. The wine
list has 40 bottles (Spain, South America and California), $30 to $225, and 20
wines by the glass, $8 to $10. Interesting local beers include a malty, dense
and punchy Black Hog Granola Brown Ale. Other drinks include sangrias,
margaritas and Cuba libres.

THE BILL: Tapas $6 to $12; salads $7 to $10; large plates $19 to $24; desserts
$6.

WHAT WE LIKED: Garlic-marinated olives, pan Catalan, grilled squid, grilled
shrimp, fried potatoes, duck confit, grilled spiced pork ribs, grilled chorizo
with succotash, baby potatoes stuffed with Moroccan chicken, roasted beet salad
with goat cheese, hanger steak with saffron basil sauce. For dessert, pineapple
tort, mango tarte Tatin and chocolate bread pudding.

IF YOU GO: Lunch daily (brunch on Sundays), 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dinner, Sundays
and Mondays, 3 to 9 p.m.; Tuesdays through Thursdays, 3 to 10 p.m.; Fridays and
Saturdays, 3 to 11 p.m.. Reservations accepted. Free parking.

RATINGS: Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fair, Poor.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/review-majorca-a-hartford-restaurant-
where-the-tastes-of-spain-shine.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Majorca, above, which opened in January in a former bicycle
factory. Far left, the short rib
 near left, papas rellenas (stuffed baby gold potatoes). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WENDY
CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); CHEESE (77%); PORK (77%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG
(53%)

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%)

STATE: BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); CATALONIA, SPAIN
(79%)

COUNTRY: SPAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kathleen Devaney, Christopher Watson

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 192 words


Kathleen Patricia Devaney, a daughter of Maura W. Devaney and Brian Devaney of
New Rochelle, N.Y., was married Saturday to Christopher Dwyer Watson, a son of
Ellen Watson and Gary P. Watson of Naples, Fla. The Rev. Christopher Devron
performed the ceremony at St. Augustine's Roman Catholic Church in Larchmont,
N.Y.

The couple met at Georgetown, from which they graduated.

Mrs. Watson, 28, works as the alumni program manager in New York for Eye to Eye,
a nonprofit organization that helps students with learning disabilities and
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.

Her father is an executive director of credit sales for Natixis Securities
America in New York, a subsidiary of the French bank Natixis, where he works on
sales of corporate bonds and loans.

The groom, 29, is a director at Groupon, the e-commerce website based in New
York, where he works on operations for Groupon to Go, the company's online food
ordering business.

His mother is the owner of the Nod Hill Design Company, an interior design
company in Naples, Fla. His father is the chief managing director of K2
Advisors, an investment management company in Stamford, Conn.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/kathleendevaney-christopher-w
atson.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL BRICE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS
(90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); ASSOCIATIONS
& ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (74%); RELIGION (71%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ALUMNI (70%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (69%); LEARNING
DISABILITIES (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); INTERIOR
DECORATING (65%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%);
CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%)

COMPANY: NATIXIS SA (57%); GROUPON INC (56%)

TICKER: KN (PAR) (57%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING
(57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6029
COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%);
NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (88%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Menagerie of One-Acts

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 995 words


The Acting Company has commissioned evenings like ''Desire'' before -- a program
of Chekhov adaptations in the 1980s, when Spalding Gray and Wendy Wasserstein
were among the playwrights; in the 1990s, a slate of short plays inspired by
Shakespeare's sonnets, by writers including Tony Kushner and Ntozake Shange.

This time, short stories by Tennessee Williams are the jumping-off point.
Directed by Michael Wilson, who has devoted much of his career to interpreting
Williams, ''Desire'' begins previews Wednesday at 59E59 Theaters. Recently, the
project's six playwrights spoke about how they approached the task. These are
edited excerpts.

BETH HENLEY adapted ''The Resemblance Between a Violin Case and a Coffin,'' a
story about a pair of siblings, written in 1949.

''Of course, I was intimidated. It's Tennessee Williams. He had a huge influence
on me. I'm from Mississippi, and so I was really kind of swept away by his use
of language and his passion and the depth of his loneliness and sorrow and
sexuality.

''If I had to choose between the existence of this adaptation and the existence
of his short story, there would be no question. I would choose his short story.
But I think it's an interesting adaptation, and a heartfelt adaptation. I really
worked on it for a year, on and off. I wanted it to seep into me and take on
some kind of life. But there's nothing as beautiful as that short story.''

REBECCA GILMAN'S play, based on ''The Field of Blue Children'' (1937), is set at
the contemporary University of Alabama. Williams's main character, Myra, becomes
Layley, a sorority sister drawn to a poet.

''I grew up in a little town in Alabama. Tennessee Williams was sort of like the
beacon for so long for Southern playwrights. Even though he writes about people
who aren't rich, it seemed like a more rarefied existence than any Southern
experience that I had ever known. When I approached the short story, I thought,
How do I relate this to the South that I know?

''His portrayal of women is difficult for me. A generous reading is that he
understood that women didn't have any real power in the world that they
inhabited, and so they exercised the only power that was available to them,
which was a manipulative sexual power. I've never really known if he liked the
women in his plays. But it's so much more interesting than something that's
easily read.''

In adapting ''Oriflamme'' (1944), DAVID GRIMM kept the St. Louis setting and
invented a character to pair with Williams's main character, Anna.

''It's sort of a stroke of luck that I managed to do something with that short
story, because when I first read it, I had no idea. It's a very internal story.
You're in her head -- in a fever mind.

''Williams's poetic sensibility, the tragic delicacy of his characters -- he so
beautifully expressed the universal yearnings. At the same time, there's a lot
of his work that I don't particularly care for. I completely fell in love with
'Oriflamme.' The story reminded me a little bit, vaguely, of the final scene in
'Summer and Smoke.' I get very excited when I find what I perceive to be
connective tissue in a writer's work.''

MARCUS GARDLEY, the only black playwright in the group, nearly quit the project
when he was asked to adapt ''Desire and the Black Masseur'' (1946). He credited
Mr. Grimm with talking him into staying.

''I did not pick this story. I'd heard about it, which is why I think I avoided
it a little bit -- because I heard it was about cannibalism, and I heard that
the African-American character was one-dimensional. When it was assigned to me,
to be honest, I was upset. I thought, out of all of this work, I get the piece
with the black character that has no name. And then above all, he's eating this
guy at the end.

''The real way to adapt Tennessee Williams is to make him angry -- to respect
his poetic landscape but to make him angry. Because otherwise you're just
repeating him. But I think he wants you to wrestle with him. The darker side of
Tennessee Williams, I respect it. His exploration into the underbelly of our
humanity? Courageous.''

ELIZABETH EGLOFF moved ''Tent Worms'' (circa 1945) to the present. Set on Cape
Cod, a place that was part of Williams's life and has always been part of hers,
it is the story of a couple confronting a terminal illness.

''I am not at all an expert in Williams. But I have to say, John Lahr's book
[the 2014 biography 'Tennessee Williams: Mad Pilgrimage of the Flesh'] has kind
of brought me into the fold. It really connected me to the man as much as a book
can connect you to a real person.

''Williams has been imitated badly so often. As an icon, he took a hit in
American theater. And we still have a lot of actors who are imitating Blanche
and Stanley. What I feel utterly loyal to is the man's sense of poetry, the
nature of him as an outlier in terms of desire at that period, and how utterly
honest he was about sex. Williams encouraged me to be out there, to be
shockingly frank about sex.''

JOHN GUARE used ''Portrait of a Girl in Glass'' (1943) as inspiration for a play
about Jim -- the ''gentleman caller'' from ''The Glass Menagerie'' -- and Betty,
his fiancée. It was the second piece Mr. Guare wrote for the project. The first,
based on the story ''The Mattress by the Tomato Patch,'' was too long to
include.

''Margot [Harley, the Acting Company's producer,] said: 'You have two choices.
You allow me to cut your play down to 20 minutes, or you'll have to be dropped.'
I went home that night and out of the blue sat down and wrote this play. I
brought it back the next day. They said, 'Did you have this in a trunk?' I said,
'I swear to you, I didn't.'

''When I was about 12, I read 'Glass Menagerie,' and it just made me cry. I have
been wondering all my life what happened -- because even Tennessee didn't deal
with what happened to Jim. I hadn't planned it, and it just came to me, and I
said, 'I can do this in 20 minutes.' So there we are.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/theater/tennessee-williams-short-stories-now-a
s-one-acts.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above, Yaegel Welch, standing, and John Skelley
in Marcus Gardley's adaptation of Tennessee Williams's short story ''Desire and
the Black Masseur''
Mr. Gardley, left, with the director Michael Wilson
 Williams in 1965. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); WRITERS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%);
DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas Deputy Killed 'Because He Wore a Uniform,' Sheriff Says

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and DAVID MONTGOMERY; Manny Fernandez reported from
Houston, and David Montgomery from Austin, Tex. Liam Stack contributed reporting
from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1172 words


HOUSTON --  A 30-year-old Houston man was arrested Saturday in the fatal
shooting the night before of a sheriff's deputy who was filling the gas tank of
his patrol car.

At a news conference Saturday afternoon, the Harris County sheriff, Ron Hickman,
identified the gunman as Shannon J. Miles and said that he had been arrested on
capital murder charges for a ''senseless and cowardly act.''

The deputy, Darren H. Goforth, 47, a 10-year veteran of the Harris County
Sheriff's Office, pulled into a Chevron gas station at about 8:30 p.m. on Friday
along a busy, tree-lined stretch of suburban Houston about 25 miles from
downtown.

As Deputy Goforth pumped the gas, the gunman approached from behind and began
firing, continuing to shoot after the officer fell to the ground, the
authorities said. Investigators have not found any provocation that might have
set off the attack.

''We have not been able to extract any details regarding a motive at this
point,'' Sheriff Hickman said. ''As far as we know, Deputy Goforth had no
previous contact with the suspect. It appears at the outset to be completely
unprovoked.''

Deputy Goforth ''was a target because he wore a uniform,'' the sheriff said.

Investigators recovered a handgun that ballistics tests indicated was a match to
the weapon used in the shooting, Sheriff Hickman said, adding that the police
were not searching for any other suspects.

Even as officials at an earlier news conference emphasized that they had not
established a motive, they tied the attack to the wave of protests across the
country over police shootings, including the demonstrations after the deaths of
Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., and Eric Garner on Staten Island.

To some, the death of Deputy Goforth echoed the attack last year on two New York
City police officers who were sitting in their patrol car in Brooklyn when they
were shot at point-blank range and killed. The gunman, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, who
had a history of mental health problems, had traveled to the city from
Baltimore, vowing to kill officers, and had alluded to the Brown and Garner
cases on social media.

''At any point when the rhetoric ramps up to the point where calculated,
coldblooded assassinations of police officers happen, this rhetoric has gotten
out of control,'' Sheriff Hickman said. ''We've heard 'black lives matter.' All
lives matter. Well, cops' lives matter, too. So why don't we just drop the
qualifier and just say 'lives matter,' and take that to the bank.''

The Harris County district attorney, Devon Anderson, who appeared with Sheriff
Hickman, said it was time for ''the silent majority'' to come forward to support
law enforcement.

''There are a few bad apples in every profession,'' she said. ''That does not
mean that there should be open warfare declared on law enforcement.''

State Representative Garnet F. Coleman, a Houston lawmaker who is heading a
legislative inquiry into the death of Sandra Bland, an African-American woman
found hanging in a Waller County jail cell in July, criticized the sheriff's
remarks.

''It strikes me as politicizing a death that, I don't know that anyone knows
what was in the mind of the shooter,'' said Mr. Coleman, a Democrat. ''I think
black lives matter. I think deputy sheriffs' lives matter. But I think the
statement shows a lack of understanding of what is occurring in this country
when it comes to the singling out of African-Americans.''

DeRay Mckesson, 30, an activist who has attended and publicized several
protests, from Ferguson to North Charleston, S.C., said in a Tweet that it was
''sad that some have chosen to politicize this tragedy by falsely attributing
the officer's death to a movement seeking to end violence.''

Mr. Miles lives about a half-mile from the gas station where the shooting
occurred. A relative inside the house declined to comment. Around 6:30 p.m.
Saturday, a woman drove up and stuck a sign in the lawn with a passage that
read, ''Father, forgive them.''

Some of Mr. Miles's relatives stepped outside to look at the sign, and one
walked to the corner, said she had no comment, pulled up the sign and carried it
inside.

The shooting stunned Harris County, the most populous in Texas, with 4.4 million
residents. Sheriff Hickman said he had been in law enforcement for 45 years and
could not recall another episode as ''coldblooded and cowardly.''

Gov. Greg Abbott, in a statement, said that ''heinous and deliberate crimes
against law enforcement'' would not be tolerated in Texas.

On Friday evening, Deputy Goforth responded to a vehicle accident nearby and
then went to the gas station. Investigators were looking into whether the
accident and the shooting were connected, but Sheriff Hickman said that did not
appear to be the case.

Deputy Goforth was married and had two children, ages 5 and 12. Rick Hartley,
the executive director of the 100 Club, a volunteer group that provides
assistance to the children of firefighters and law enforcement officers killed
in the line of duty, said it would give Deputy Goforth's family a check for
$20,000 to help with immediate needs.

The president of the Harris County Deputies' Organization, Deputy Robert
Goerlitz, said he had known Deputy Goforth since 2008 and described him as a
''wonderful family man'' who had spoken often of his wife and children.

''He was an extremely hard worker,'' said Deputy Goerlitz, who was Deputy
Goforth's patrol instructor at the sheriff's academy. ''I've seen some dedicated
folks, but he was above and beyond.''

Deputy Goforth had experienced effects of previous injuries while he was in the
academy but pushed them aside during his training. ''He wouldn't give up,''
Deputy Goerlitz said.

At the gas station on Saturday afternoon, the pump where the deputy was shot,
No. 8, was turned into a makeshift memorial. Someone attached a piece of paper
to the pump's computer screen with a message reading, ''Gone but never
forgotten, R.I.P. Deputy Goforth.''

On the pump and below it, people left bouquets of roses, teddy bears, American
flags, balloons, police patches and notes. A small crowd of men, women and
children gathered around it throughout the day in a quiet vigil, even as the gas
station reopened for business.

Wes Tarpley, 60, who lives nearby, left a cross at the base of the pump that
read, ''Grace and peace my son.'' He said he could not make sense of the
killing.

''You can't make sense of evil,'' Mr. Tarpley said. ''Evil is evil. There's no
rhyme or reason to it. I don't know what was going on in that young man's life.
Whatever it was, it was dark.''

Sheriff Hickman and other officials said they had been overwhelmed by the
support of residents and other law enforcement agencies. But he said his
deputies, while being more cautious as they worked their shifts, were reeling.

''This is the kind of thing that drives you right down to your soul,'' he said.
''Our job is to carry the badge and gun and protect everybody else, and now
we've got to fall back, regroup and take care of one of our own.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/us/shooting-of-texas-deputy-is-called-coldbloo
ded-execution.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Deputy Darren H. Goforth (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRIS COUNTY SHERIFF'S
OFFICE) (A14)
Flowers, balloons and notes were among the items left at a makeshift memorial to
Deputy Darren H. Goforth at the Houston gas station where he was killed Friday
night. Shannon J. Miles, left, was charged with capital murder on Saturday.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES NIELSEN/HOUSTON CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 HARRIS COUNTRY SHERIFF'S OFFICE) (A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (95%); SHOOTINGS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%);
DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
MURDER (78%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES
(78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING
(73%); CAPITAL CRIMES (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%)

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The How-on-Earth Garden

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; DEBRIEFING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words


If there were a competition for tackling decidedly out-of-the-ordinary
landscaping projects, David Kelly, a landscape designer, would be on auto-entry.

Seemingly float a swimming pool with an ipe-wood deck above a pond on an estate
in Sagaponack, N.Y. ? He's done it.

Levitate a small forest of 50-foot-tall honey locust trees as a second-story
buffer between a luxury condominium and the High Line? He did that to the
accompaniment of cheers from neighbors of 500 West 21st Street who turned out to
watch the trees, imported from upstate New York, hoisted by crane into position
in the heart of Chelsea.

''It was like a rally for these monster trees to make it in the big city,'' said
Mr. Kelly, himself a Canadian import with roots in Langley, a sports-centric
city near Vancouver. His sympathies, he said, are with the transplants: ''I
cried the first day I came to New York, but I adjusted, and so will they.''

He designed a 30-foot-high indoor green wall for the conservatory of a Manhattan
apartment. And he came up with an award-winning residential project near
Capetown, South Africa, by eschewing status quo lawns and gardens and instead
incorporating the rugged, drought-resistant native vegetation known as fynbos.

Mr. Kelly found out after the fact that fynbos is best nurtured not with
fertilizer, but with controlled burnings every 10 to 20 years. ''It's a little
tricky when you've got a house in the middle of what seems to be a forest
fire,'' he said. ''I knew nothing about that plant palette when I took on the
project, but now I love it. With gardening, you never stop learning.''

Mr. Kelly, 47, joined Rees Roberts and Partners, a firm specializing in interior
and landscape design, nearly two decades ago and prefers that every project be a
one-off, or close. ''When a client asks me to show them a picture of what the
finished product will look like, I usually have to tell them I can't, because
we've never done it before,'' he said.

''With a landscape, you can't come in and superimpose your ideas on a space.
People may think of me as that guy who brings the plants in, but there's way
more to it. Landscaping is not an afterthought that you add in later.''

His latest experiment necessitated hauling 20 tons of soil to the top of 7
Harrison Street as the largely unseen underpinnings for the showstopping
wraparound terrace of its $22.5 million duplex apartment. There, the star
ingredients are a sunken reflecting pool, a dozen mature honey locust and
Kwanzan cherry trees, and a hornbeam hedge that doubles ''as an outdoor wall,''
he said. The result: an urban garden that doesn't seem as if it's in the city at
all.

To build the terrace and a new glass penthouse addition for the top-floor luxury
apartment, Steven Harris, the architect who collaborated with Mr. Kelly on the
project, raised the roof of the original building by several feet. The raised
floor permitted the creation of a wraparound trench, into which went the 20 tons
of soil, a hidden irrigation system and the plantings. The penthouse is
surrounded by and flush with the terrace, and the trees and other flora appear
to be growing from the earth, just as they would in nature.

''In Manhattan, where there are height limitations and square footage is
extremely expensive, it's very rare for any developer-client to give over any
space, particularly for soil and tree root balls,'' Mr. Kelly said.

Transparent 20-foot glass panels are the only separation between the terrace and
the interior; indoors and out, the floors are limestone. Although Mr. Kelly was
wearing sneakers along with a blue-and-black ensemble that happened to match his
eyeglass frames, he said limestone felt particularly ''sensual'' under bare
feet.

Mr. Kelly divided the terrace into outdoor rooms. The lounge area next to the
living room faces north toward the city; the shallow reflecting pool is outside
the dining room, and at certain times of day it and the sky are reflected on the
ceiling. To the south, where the views include the Woolworth Building and One
World Trade Center, are the outdoor kitchen and dining area. Serenity and
simplicity were Mr. Kelly's goals, and it helped to receive carte blanche from
the developer.

''Simplicity is very complicated, that's something I learned on this project,''
said Sean Zalka, a partner with Scott Sabbagh in Matrix Development, the team
behind the luxury reboot of 7 Harrison, which was built at the turn of the last
century.

''It's expensive to look this natural,'' added the developer, who estimated the
terrace's atypical infrastructure and seamless indoor/outdoor habitat added
another three or four million dollars to the budget. ''But we went the extra
mile to deliver a turnkey interior, so it made sense to really go for it and do
the exterior in a very unusual way. It frankly doesn't feel like a city terrace.
The guiding ethos here was to create alchemy between indoors and out.''

Mr. Kelly's projects tend to be divided between the urban, where buildings
dominate and impose restrictions, and the rural, where the challenge is creating
a landscape that doesn't fight with nature.

''Trying to imagine a landscape in the city is difficult, and city projects tend
to be so radically different than country projects,'' he said. ''City projects
are more theatrical. But even if all you have is a 7-by-4-foot terrace, you can
add an evergreen, a Japanese maple, a few annuals, a piece of outdoor furniture
and you'll have yourself a green backdrop.''

Not that he does. Mr. Kelly lives in Chelsea at London Terrace Gardens with his
husband, Robert Valin, and their dog, Benny, a mix of Cavalier King Charles
spaniel and French bulldog. Improbably, they have no outdoor space.

''We have one orchid and a terrarium,'' he said. ''But I'm always looking for a
townhouse with a garden, or a place upstate; my true love would be a house in
Palm Springs.''

He has done imaginative work at the Adirondacks retreat owned by the actress
Sigourney Weaver. ''She asked me to design something that looked like Beatrix
Potter on acid,'' he said of the powerful mountain landscape, with its mosses,
ferns, boulders and towering trees, that has now been ''knitted'' with colorful
perennial gardens. Not quite as far upstate, he undertook the task of
rehabilitating a 120-acre farm near Hudson, N.Y., an ongoing project that began
eight years ago.

''The property was overgrown, unkempt for years and had a great deal of wet
fields,'' said Patrick Milling Smith, the owner of that farm, as well as a
producer of film, theater, music and commercials whose Broadway credits include
''Once,'' which won eight Tonys.

Mr. Kelly thinned out the forest growth and added stone bridges, an acre pond,
orchards and various gardens.

''He turned a rather sad old farm into a stunning property that feels like an
English park, but is also a practical working farm,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Nothing
feels precious and everything is very natural-looking.''

The gardens are organic and the source of the produce used at Fish & Game, a
restaurant in Hudson co-owned by Mr. Smith .

Mr. Kelly, who is currently working on a suite of cliffside gardens cascading
toward the Adriatic Sea for a hotel in Dubrovnik, Croatia, said his ideal New
York project would be an immense rooftop garden at a public building that would
have a double civic impact: cleaner and cooler air together with the calming
effect of greenery.

''I love plants, but I love even more the architecture of site planning,'' he
said. ''You can be the most genius horticulturalist in the world, but you can't
control how a plant is going to react. That's what keeps it interesting.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/the-how-on-earth-garden.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Kelly on the rooftop terrace he designed and planted for
a $22.5 million duplex apartment in TriBeCa. Among the concepts: The trees look
as if they were growing from the earth. Twenty tons of soil helped make that
possible. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
 Above, on West 21st Street, David Kelly installed 50-foot trees as a
second-story buffer between a condo and the High Line. Top left, at 7 Harrison
in TriBeCa, Mr. Kelly planted trees beneath the limestone terrace, adding a
reflecting pool. Top right, the trees arriving at 7 Harrison. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES WILL FEMIA) (RE11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (90%); GARDENING (78%); INTERIOR
DECORATING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); FERTILIZERS (73%);
CONDOMINIUMS (71%); FOREST FIRES (71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking Notes With Hijikata

BYLINE: By SIOBHAN BURKE

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 171 words


It's not exactly beach reading, but ''Costume en Face: A Primer of Darkness for
Young Boys and Girls'' (Ugly Duckling Presse) is one of the strangest and most
beautiful dance books to come along in a while, though it's not exactly a dance
book either. The slender volume contains notations of ''Costume en Face,'' a
1976 work by Tatsumi Hijikata, who created the Japanese performance art Butoh.
The note taker was the lead performer, Moe Yamamoto; his record of Hijikata's
words, in Japanese, alternates with Sawako Nakayasu's English translation,
spattered with hand-drawn sketches and symbols.

Every choreographer, to some extent, relies on language to transfigure ideas
into movement, and Hijikata's was singularly surreal, encrypting both dreamy and
sickening images. One page offers these: ''Angel of burns,'' ''lady in
plaster,'' ''spinal decay of the blind.'' Somewhere between score and poem, the
notebook takes on a kinetic life of its own, about as close to dancing as words
on a page can get. (uglyducklingpresse.org.)



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/dance/costume-en-face-adds-sketches-and-e
nglish-translations-to-notes-on-butoh.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Costume en Face'' adds English translations and sketches.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 43 words


METROPOLITAN

An article in some editions last Sunday about Season 2 of the workplace reality
television show ''Human Resources,'' which focuses on TerraCycle, a Trenton
company, misspelled the given name of an executive producer. She is Anneka
Jones, not Anneke.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Friends Once Removed

BYLINE: By RACHEL CUSK.

Rachel Cusk's most recent book is the novel ''Outline.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words


THE STORY OF THE LOST CHILDBook 4, The Neapolitan Novels: ''Maturity, Old Age''
By Elena FerranteTranslated by Ann Goldstein473 pp. Europa Editions. Paper, $18.
Elena Ferrante has written her story twice: once in a group of intense, highly
modeled short novels whose action unfolds over a brief time span; and again in
the four sprawling, rambunctious, decades-spanning works that compose her
Neapolitan saga. That these two modes of storytelling -- the compact and the
commodious; the modern and the historical; the distilling of life into metaphor
and its picaresque, riotous expansion -- are so obviously the obverse of each
other constitutes yet another narrative, the story of how an individual (more
specifically, a woman) arrives, after the ­vicissitudes of living, at a
definition of self. ''Do you want the long answer or the short?'' is the
customary divide between explanations versus outcomes in the retelling of
events. Ferrante gives us both the long answer and the short, and in doing so
adumbrates the mysterious beauty and brutality of personal experience.

Ferrante is the by now famously anonymous Italian ­novelist whose works started
appearing in 1992, though their setting is the Naples of the 1950s onward. By
the time we reach ''The Story of the Lost Child,'' the fourth and final
installment of the Neapolitan series, we have arrived at the 21st century and
Elena, its narrator, is growing old. One can call Ferrante's novels ''her
story'' for the reason that they are openly autobiographical in form: Against
the telling and retelling of the life of a single Neapolitan mother of two --
frequently called Elena -- who rises from impoverished beginnings to become a
successful author, publisher and academic, her anonymity is a sort of beau geste
as well as a precaution. These facts are as consistent in the short novels as in
the long, but in the Neapolitan saga Ferrante's writ runs much wider, into
detailed accounts of state corruption, murder and political scandals whose
participants are presumably recognizable to the modern Italian reader.

Ferrante's preoccupations -- set out with great clarity in her short books ''The
Days of Abandonment'' and ''The Lost Daughter,'' and discernible in a different
way amid the clamor of the Neapolitan novels -- are with the inherent radicalism
of modern female identity; the struggles of the female artist or intellectual
with her biological and social destiny as a woman; and, perhaps most strikingly,
with motherhood as it is lived by that woman in all her striving, transitional,
divided newness. ''The Days of Abandonment,'' Ferrante's finest short work,
describes the awakening of its narrator into a Medea-like emotional frenzy when
her husband coolly leaves her for a young and beautiful woman. Left alone in
their apartment with the care of their two young children, she undergoes a
complete dismantling of her traditional, passive female identity and reassembles
herself as a raging, active and ultimately autonomous being. What is sacrificed
is her relationship with her children; or so, at least, she fears. In this novel
as well as others, the narrator views that sacrifice ambivalently, sometimes
experiencing it as loss and sometimes glimpsing in it ­possibilities for a new,
more complex maternal identity. The power and prestige of the conventional
­mother is ­something from which ­Ferrante's narrators -- as daughters -- have
struggled to free themselves: What Ferrante describes so ­brilliantly is the
double loss that entails for the modern woman, who finds herself neither
mothered nor able to mother in turn.

''The Story of the Lost Child'' picks up these themes, as Elena and Lila, the
­girlhood friends and rivals whose relationship spans and forms the backbone of
the Neapolitan novels, enter the middle terrain of marriage and motherhood. In
Elena and Lila, Ferrante's modern woman is bisected and given two faces; where
in her other works the divided woman speaks to and wrestles with herself, the
Neapolitan series externalizes and literalizes those politics to show their
almost insurmountable complexity. Elena is the woman who fears that her
achievements and successes, while having the appearance of feminist autonomy,
are in fact the fruits of a continuing, covert slavery to ­patriarchal values.
Lila is the unwritten, unexpressed female potentiality, a more obstinate version
of Virginia Woolf's concept of Shakespeare's sister. Elena's ­lifelong fear --
that Lila, while having made no mark on the world, is in fact more brilliant
than she is -- bites more deeply, as the two women age, into the very roots of
female identity: continuity, stability, the capacity to nurture.

By now Elena has two daughters. Separated from their father, compelled by her
effortful ascent into the literary world, she inhabits the rackety motherhood of
the compartmentalized woman, by turns abandoning, remorseful, selfish, valiant
and plagued with guilt. Lila has a single son, the unprepossessing Rino. Unlike
Elena, who has moved to Florence and to a life of middle-class values, Lila has
remained in the Naples area in all its untransfigurable squalor. Like everything
else she does, Elena's version of marriage and family life bears an aspirational
taint -- an accusation she imagines coming from Lila, and frequently turns
against herself. In order to disprove it, she decides in the wake of her
marriage's collapse to return to Naples with her two daughters to live. She
takes up residence first in a neighborhood overlooking Lila's, then in the
apartment directly above hers, and there, in the pure gothicism of this spatial
arrangement, the two women resume their relationship, Lila acting as mother to
Elena's daughters -- and almost, therefore, to Elena herself -- so that Elena
can pursue her career.

With this shift into a psychological paradigm, Ferrante implies much about the
stubbornly cyclical nature of female evolution. This atmosphere intensifies when
both women, well into their 30s, conceive and give birth to daughters: Lila's
quicksilver bright, Elena's slow to learn and -- after she is summarily
abandoned by her philandering father, whom she adores in the abstract --
secretly worshipful of male power. What Ferrante illustrates here is the
externalizing of an inner supposition whose contradictions lie deep within the
female character in both its realized and unrealized state: The woman who has
not proved herself through traditional measures of accomplishment suspects she
has brilliance hidden inside her; while the realized woman, the woman who can
point to her own successes, is afraid she has none. ''She possessed
intelligence,'' Elena writes of Lila, ''and didn't put it to use but, rather,
wasted it, like a great lady for whom all the riches of the world are merely a
sign of vulgarity.'' Elena's own use of her talents has been, she increasingly
sees, a form of submission too common among women, ''and that submission had --
through trials, failures, successes -- reduced us.''

The fate of the women's two daughters -- their mothers' imagos, the re-enactors
of their symbiosis -- is, predictably perhaps, entirely symbolic. Lila's child,
in her moment of greatest potential, when her rare intelligence is visible but
not yet practicable, vanishes one afternoon from a Naples street corner. Elena
lives on to make her plodding progress from vulnerability to education to
self-realization. She becomes, in short, normal -- and this, Ferrante suggests,
is where the female drive toward autonomy, with all its racking, successive
waves, will ultimately deliver us: into a ­reality that is, if not transformed,
at least better adjusted. Elena and Lila may both suspect that Lila possesses
the greater, more radical brilliance. But the achievement of these novels
belongs solely to ­Elena. ''I've finished this story that I thought would never
end,'' she writes, finally. ''I finished it and patiently reread it not so much
to improve the quality of the writing as to find out if there are even a few
lines where it's possible to trace the evidence that Lila entered my text and
decided to contribute to writing it. But I have had to acknowledge that all
these pages are mine alone.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/the-story-of-the-lost-child-by-el
ena-ferrante.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY EMILIANO PONZI) (BR1
 BR22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FICTION LITERATURE
(90%); WRITERS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); SCANDALS (71%); CORRUPTION
(61%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Greenery on a Shoestring

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words


In a city that's cleaner, leafier and safer than it has been in some time, home
buyers are clamoring for private outdoor space, brokers say. But if you're
looking at the lower end of the market -- say, at apartments priced around
$500,000 or less -- is there any hope of finding your own terrace or lawn?

Maybe. If you're searching on Staten Island, where many of the listings have
yards, you're in luck. But if you have your sights set on one of the other
boroughs, finding a home with a little green space may require patience and
perseverance.

A search on Aug. 20 on the real estate site StreetEasy in the under-$500,000
category turned up 156 condos and co-ops for sale in Manhattan with outdoor
space, out of a total of 373 apartments. But since the site doesn't specify what
sort of outdoor space, it's hard to tell how many of those patios and gardens
are shared with the neighbors. Sites like those of individual brokerages or
multiple listing services that allow you to winnow results by checking specific
search terms -- ''deck,'' ''balcony'' or ''garden/patio'' -- were less
encouraging. Still, for the tenacious buyer, there are deals (and greenery) to
be had.

In Brooklyn: A Tiny Private Park

Take apartment No. 2 at 268 Berkeley Place in Park Slope: This co-op studio has
a garden with a Japanese maple, a hydrangea and brick paths edged in hostas.
There's even room for a table and chairs.

''It takes you out of the metropolitan feel of things,'' said Joanna Mayfield
Marks, a Park Slope resident and the associate broker with Halstead Property who
listed the unit for $435,000. Prospect Park can sometimes feel crowded, she
added, and an apartment like this offers ''a little peace and tranquillity.''

The catch? At around 500 square feet, the garden is considerably larger than the
apartment itself.

Whoever buys the studio, on the ground level of a four-story, eight-unit
brownstone near Prospect Park, may need a designer's eye as well as a green
thumb. A large bed will be a tight fit, and the bathroom, tiled in Pepto-Bismol
pink, could use an upgrade.

But these may be details you could live with in exchange for a private retreat
in the coveted brownstone belt -- where single-family townhouses are nowhere
near the sub-$500,000 price point and few multifamily buildings currently on the
market have terraces. Even new condominiums in this bracket in neighborhoods
like Williamsburg rarely seem to offer more than a barely usable Juliet balcony.

Deeper in Brooklyn, where prices are lower, there is a little more green to go
around. But often what counts as outdoor space there -- in the eyes of brokers,
anyway -- are lawns separating apartment towers. A recent online search,
however, yielded a few single-family houses with yards in Gerritsen Beach,
Canarsie and East New York.

In Manhattan: A Terrace of One's Own

Plenty of penthouses with terraces are available in Manhattan -- for a price.

The triplex penthouse at the 72-story CitySpire, at 150 West 56th Street in
Midtown, has wraparound terraces on three levels, with a total of 3,000 square
feet of outdoor space. It is listed at $100 million.

The terraces in similar apartments at the Plaza Hotel, Trump Park Avenue and 35
North Moore Street in TriBeCa are also stunning and priced nearly as high.

In a borough where the average apartment price was $1.87 million in the second
quarter of 2015, according to a report prepared for the Douglas Elliman
brokerage, does a buyer who hasn't won the lottery have any hope of scoring a
rooftop terrace?

Maybe. Penthouse D at 103 East 84th Street, a 10-story prewar doorman co-op on
the Upper East Side, just off Park Avenue, is listed with Seth Levin, an
associate broker at Douglas Elliman, for $225,000. True, it is less than 250
square feet, making the words ''Think Big'' posted over one of the doors seem
like a mantra for peace of mind. And, yes, the monthly maintenance of $1,955 is
a bit steep.

But up a couple of steps is a terrace roomy enough to accommodate a small table
and chairs. It's not completely private -- it connects with the terrace of the
adjoining penthouse -- but the apartment's owners control an almost 15-foot
stretch. And for a bit of sun on a Manhattan roof, that may be enough.

In the Bronx: A Balcony with a View

There isn't much in the way of private outdoor space for less than $500,000 in
market-rate buildings in the dense south-central section of the Bronx, according
to a search of listings. On the edges of the borough, though, it's possible to
find not only fresh air, but sweeping views.

Many of the tall brick buildings that were constructed there in the latter half
of the 20th century have facades studded with balconies. One example is the
Edmond Lee, a 17-story co-op at 3135 Johnson Avenue in South Riverdale near the
Harlem River, built in the 1950s.

Apartment 16G, a 975-square-foot one-bedroom near the top of the building, is
listed by Chintan Trivedi, the owner of Re/Max in the City, for $324,900. Views
from its north-facing balcony take in similar high-rises dotting this part of
Riverdale, as well as the green hills beyond.

With roughly 30 square feet, the balcony can easily accommodate patio furniture.
And the co-op board permits shareholders to enclose their balconies with
screens, to keep bugs away, or even with glass walls, to turn them into
year-round spaces.

According to brokers, units like this routinely command about 10 percent more
than those without balconies. But an even better way to estimate the value that
balconies add, they say, is to figure that their square footage is worth up to
50 percent of an apartment's indoor square footage.

However you figure the value, there are other candidates with the amenity of
fresh air in the area. More than half a dozen were offered for under $500,000 on
StreetEasy earlier this month, including apartments in the Winston Churchill at
2500 Johnson, at 3601 Johnson and at 735 Kappock Street.

Call it the balcony district. And as Michael Rodriguez, a salesman with Re/Max
in the City, said, Riverdale has other things going for it as well. ''It's
quieter here,'' he said. ''And you will get more for your money.''

In Upper Manhattan: A Real Backyard

In the area north of Central Park, where Manhattan tapers to a panhandle, prices
tend to be cheaper, but while your dollar may go farther, that doesn't often
mean daisies.

Pricey townhouses in Hamilton Heights often come with private outdoor space, but
in most multifamily buildings, roof decks, patios or courtyards are shared. One
exception is a co-op at 239 West 148th Street: No. 1F, a two-bedroom duplex with
1,419 square feet that comes with a 300-square-foot yard.

Thirty years ago, yards like these might have been filled with trash, said
Willie Kathryn Suggs, the listing agent, who has lived in Harlem since 1985. As
Ms. Suggs put it, ''You looked at your yard back then; you didn't use it.'' Now,
she said, people are embracing the great urban outdoors, from alley gardens to
sidewalk cafes.

Because of restrictions imposed on the developer by the city, the annual income
of the buyer of No. 1F cannot exceed a percentage of the median income for the
area; this year, the ceiling is $185,000, Ms. Suggs said. The co-op, in a prewar
89-unit brick building called the Washington, is priced at $499,999.

''You're living in a house here,'' she said. ''This is cheap by New York
standards.''

In Queens: A Suburban Oasis

Many of the condominiums built during Long Island City's ongoing development
boom have balconies, but few are being resold for less than $1 million,
according to a recent search -- perhaps because they are so close to Midtown
Manhattan. For a borough known for its suburban vibe, it's surprisingly
difficult to find a home in Queens with a private lawn, at least for less than
$500,000.

One charming option, though, is at 111-28 174th Street, in the Addisleigh Park
section of St. Albans, a historic African-American enclave with brick and stucco
homes. The attached Tudor-style house has three bedrooms, stained-glass windows,
a sunken living room and a bonus in back: a petite yard with a grill and a
raised deck.

''It's like an oasis,'' said Yvette Watkins, the saleswoman at Douglas Elliman
who listed the property for $417,888; it recently went under contract.

Separated from the house by an alley, the yard is still close enough to use for
parties. Carolyn Davis, the retired elementary school principal who owns the
property, said she has held jazz concerts there. Musicians jammed in the one-car
garage under the house, she said, while guests mingled outdoors.

''I would never have bought this house without the yard,'' Ms. Davis added. ''I
come from a large family, and barbecuing is essential.''

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/finding-a-little-greenery-in-new-yo
rk-for-500000-or-less.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A one-bedroom in the Edmond Lee, below, on Johnson Avenue in
South Riverdale, the Bronx, has a balcony with a view and is listed at $324,900.
(RE1)
Left, the garden of a studio on Berkeley Place in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Below
left, the building itself, and below, the interior of the studio, which was
recently listed for $435,000.
 Above left and right, a private garden with a deck comes with an attached Tudor
on 174th Street in St. Albans, Queens, that was offered for $417,888. Left and
below, outdoors and indoors at a $225,000 studio penthouse on East 84th Street.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMON HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS
(78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (78%);
RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); PRICES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL
CONDOMINIUMS (77%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Threats to a Positive Workplace

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT.

Each week, Adam Bryant talks with top executives about leadership. Follow him on
Twitter: @nytcorneroffice. This interview has been edited for space and clarity.

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CORNER OFFICE;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 934 words


This interview with Greg Schott, chief executive of MuleSoft, a software
company, was conducted and condensed by Adam Bryant.

Q. Were you in leadership roles or doing entrepreneurial things when you were
younger?

A. I played a lot of sports. I wasn't a great natural athlete, but I learned
that the harder I worked, the better the results. That was a good feedback loop
for me.

I also started working from a young age. I would cut lawns and shovel snow, and
in high school I worked in a frame store. I was in the back room making frames,
and always trying to figure out a way to do it simpler and faster.

When the owners opened another store, they said, ''We want you to go over there
and set up the whole store and figure out the flow of everything.'' It was a
cool experience as a 16-year-old to design a little factory. It was a good
reminder that if you put your mind to something and work at it, people will
recognize it and maybe ask you to do something more important later.

And were you doing those jobs just for spending money?

I had this drive for independence. I liked having my own plan and my own money.
I wanted to pay for college myself. I was on a mission to do that. I don't know
where that came from. In our family, there was this push to start something and
do something.

Tell me more about your parents.

My father was a Navy pilot. He was the first person in his family to go to
college. After the Navy, he joined Xerox for a while, and then he was an
entrepreneur. He's the most high-integrity person I've ever known. There's no
pretense or spin. I learned from him to be incredibly direct. My mom spent years
raising us and then worked in office administration roles. She was just behind
you the whole time. With my mom, you felt like you could do anything.

What was your first management role?

I managed an assembly line with 17 employees at Westinghouse. We built radar
systems for B-1 bombers. I was 22.

How did that go?

It can be tough when you're managing a group of people who've been doing
something maybe for 20 or 30 years, and you've been doing it only for a year or
two. But I always walked in with this attitude of, let's just make it better. We
were always trying to figure out ways to improve the process, because in the
defense business, accuracy and reliability have to be great.

But you also learn that just because you think something is the best thing for
the organization, others don't necessarily share the same motivation.

You worked at a number of tech companies before becoming C.E.O. of MuleSoft.
What lessons did you learn about culture along the way?

I learned that it can take years to build a great culture and you can tear it
down in very short order. It's like a building -- you can spend years building a
beautiful building and then it can just collapse.

The problems I've seen have been lack of communication, which can lead to a lack
of trust. If people don't feel connected to the leadership and they don't feel
like they understand where the company is headed, people will fill in the
blanks, and often not with positive things. It's just human nature.

Another one is when you get leadership that looks like they're out for
themselves. People pick up on that when decisions are made that are not
necessarily with everybody's best interest at heart. It's hard to put your
finger on it, but it's an attitude.

Factions are also a problem, and I've seen this in the tech world as companies
grow quickly. There tends to be an old-timer group -- the ones who have been
around forever, which in technology is three to five years -- and the new people
who were brought on board later.

If there's any kind of different treatment, like the folks who have been there
since the beginning are treated as if they're the only ones that can really
figure things out, or if the new ones are considered the saviors of the company,
that sends a terrible signal. We're all here together to make it work.

How do you hire? What do you look for?

First off, we're looking for someone who's a good human. That is defined by high
integrity, being a great team player, and they want to win as a company first,
team second, individually third. The next thing we look for is people who are
whip-smart. The third thing we look for is a clear track record of achievement.

And I also work hard to understand the decisions they've made along the way,
like why they left a certain job to take the next one. You learn all kinds of
things from why they made those job transitions. I'll also ask what they've done
that changed things for their organization as opposed to just doing the job that
they were asked to do. What did they do that nobody asked them to do?

What career and life advice do you give to new college grads?

The first thing I'd say is that you should be spending as much time making
decisions about your job as you did making a decision about the college you
chose. And when you make those decisions, you need to really dig in. Candidates
should be interviewing us every bit as much as we're interviewing them. But I'm
often surprised by how people haven't really researched the company before they
come in for interviews.

I also tell them that starting their career is a bit like being at the top of a
mogul ski run. You can try to map out your line for 10 moguls, but after the
first two moguls, you're usually off your line. You're never going to be able to
map it out to the bottom. It's about making sure that you're on the right slope
and you picked the right mountain. Don't worry so much about how it's all going
to play out in the end.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/business/greg-schott-of-mulesoft-beware-the-th
reats-to-a-positive-workplace.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Greg Schott: Chief executive of the software company MuleSoft.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EARL WILSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%);
COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PICTURE FRAME SHOPS (75%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (66%);
FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (64%); RADAR SYSTEMS (60%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(60%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Comments

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 499 words


Readers responded to ''One Life, Shaken and Stirred,'' an article in Sunday
Styles. Below is a selection of comments from nytimes.com/styles, edited for
space.

This column resonates powerfully with me. In many ways, it's my story, too.

Bounced around relationship to relationship for years. Frantic, searching,
nothing feeling right. Refused therapy. Ultimately married the wrong guy, moved
cross-country and took a job I hated.

Felt my soul dying. Divorced. Fell in love with yet another wrong guy. Got
rejected. Suffered a major emotional crisis. Realized I really needed help.
Found the right therapist. Actually went to therapy. Did some soul searching.
Traveled alone. Adopted a dog. Moved back to my home city, took a less
prestigious but ultimately more rewarding job. Met the love of my life at this
job. Never felt lost again.

The right person, at the right time, after some pretty tumultuous years, solved
my ''love addiction.'' But, crucially, he didn't save me. By the time we met, I
had, finally, already saved myself.

zinas

This column touches you in various ways and teaches you so many things. One can
only find and give/share love when one is completely happy with oneself. Most of
us depend on the love of our life/partner for our happiness. But that is such a
misconception considering that you cannot spread happiness and love when you are
not happy with yourself first. You get love when you give love, you get
happiness when you share happiness. We must all learn to first find happiness
within ourselves(our work, our hobbies, our life) and then spread it around.
Nothing will stop love from coming your way thereafter.

Bala, Singapore

I'm in my late 20s and have been reading Modern Love since I was a teenager. I
have the most supportive family and friends. I have a challenging and rewarding
job I enjoy. I love living in New York and traveling even more, and work hard to
see as much of the world as I can. I didn't feel heartbroken when my engagement
to my boyfriend of many years ended this spring because it always felt wrong and
I finally felt free.

But now, finally single, I find myself an addict just as the author has
described. Loved ones describe me as rationale, pragmatic to a fault and
successful in whatever I put my mind to. But in love I am the opposite. I put so
much stock into an intense initial connection or early excitement of a new
encounter only to find myself heartbroken when it doesn't work out.

I wish I could find the balance that the author achieved. I wish I didn't feel
this massive hole in both my head and my heart every moment of every day
wondering how and when I will find that person I'm meant for. I wish I was
convinced of my self-worth in the way my family and friends say I should be.

Instead, I just feel like a desperate little girl with no control over her life
seeking something you can't force yourself to find. I truly hope one day I have
a happy ending to share like the author of this column does.

K, N.Y.C.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (77%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 605 words


The Painted Ladies of Times Square

In last Sunday's Big City column, Ginia Bellafante wrote about the so-called
Times Square desnudas -- topless women (in body paint) who pose with tourists
for donations. Ms. Bellafante suggested that these women were a contemporary
version of a New York archetype: ''the hustler.'' Readers responded on
nytimes.com. Comments have been edited for length and clarity.

The pendulum has swung in the other direction for Times Square. It is not a very
pleasant place to be -- throngs of tourists, gaping and gawking, surrounded by a
freak show of over- and under-dressed characters bothering everyone in sight. I
endure it only to go to the theater or Toys ''R'' Us (a necessary evil if you
have kids). If the plazas around the city are removed, who cares! Good riddance!
LP, NYC

I'm no Puritan, but I find the desnudas depressing. What a sad statement about
how to make it -- as a woman -- in America. Sure, there are tougher issues to
confront, but they (and all the costumed characters) are a nuisance to tourists
and New Yorkers alike. Panhandling is not ''performance art,'' and they should
be regulated the way any other vendors are. And as someone who witnessed the
chaos of actual bomb scares in Times Square, I believe the chaos caused by this
free for all poses a security threat.

Fiona, New York City

It has been my privilege to visit NYC five times. I enjoyed the marvelous
architecture, which does not include much of the new things, the transit system,
the energy, the diversity, the friendliness (yes, friendliness!), the big
streets and in particular the little streets.

I was blown away by the street entertainment. The quality of music and dance by
the youngest to the oldest of street and subway performers in Manhattan
gobsmacked me. We quickly learned to carry a lot of small bills to reward those
folks.

As a semi-elderly tourist I was not offended by street hustlers either naked or
clothed. I wasn't afraid of them, it was part of the experience.

I was amazed at how hard the people in the service industries in NYC work, I saw
them at work and on the bus after their shifts. As a tourist those are the
people one sees the most. NYC depends on those people to support the 58 million
visitors a year, they are good Americans, and they are doing their best. I hope
the people who are working in Times Square profiled here can get better jobs.

Nancy, Vancouver, Canada

The issue I have is with the ''managers'' -- men who appear to be the force
behind the desnudas, pushing them to work 12-hour days, taking 40 percent of
their earnings, supposedly providing protection. That's the part I find really
disturbing. Are these men threatening them with deportation or worse? If the
desnudas are independent operators, that's one thing, a little tacky, but they
are trying to do their thing, doing the NY hustle, fine, but these ''pimps''
make my blood boil. Reminds me of the nail salons.

Jch, NY

As a recent tourist to NYC, staying in Times Square, I did happen to notice the
desnudas. At first I was quite surprised, then amused. I suppose if I had young
children with me, maybe I'd be more concerned about how to explain the girls to
the kids, but otherwise, really, who cares?

We as a country need to be less hung-up on public nudity and a little more
concerned with the problems listed here, such as homelessness, poverty,
unemployment, etc. I was much more offended by the hucksters relentlessly trying
to get me to take a bus tour than I was by the various street performers. Now, a
naked bus tour ... that would be a different story. Michael, North Carolina




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); STREET ART (78%); EYEWITNESSES (77%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); DANCE (69%); PANHANDLING (65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY BOOK CLUB; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 115 words


In honor of E. L. Doctorow, who died on July 21 at age 84, the Big City Book
Club has chosen his 2009 novel, ''Homer & Langley,'' as its next selection. The
book is a long meditation on the lives of the Collyer Brothers, Homer and
Langley, who were in some sense male precursors of the Beales of ''Grey
Gardens.'' Wealthy Manhattanites, they died amid the squalor of their endless
hoarding -- skyscrapers' worth of books, papers, lighting fixtures and even
human bones. Join us for a live online discussion of the book on the City Room
blog, Monday, Sept. 21, at 6:30 p.m., Eastern time.

To join the club and receive regular email updates, visit
nytimes.com/marketing/bigcitybookclub.




URL:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK CLUBS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

George Cleve, Conductor Who Interpreted Mozart, Dies at 79

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 518 words


George Cleve, a conductor known to New York audiences for his guest appearances
with the Mostly Mozart Festival and the New York City Ballet, died on Thursday
at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 79.

The cause was liver failure, said Khori Dastoor, a family friend.

Renowned as a Mozart interpreter, Mr. Cleve spent his career primarily on the
West Coast. He was the music director of the San Jose Symphony from 1972 to 1992
and in 1974 founded the Midsummer Mozart Festival, an annual concert series in
the Bay Area that he directed to the end of his life.

Mr. Cleve appeared as a guest conductor with orchestras around the world,
including the New York and Los Angeles Philharmonics; the Boston, San Francisco
and Montreal Symphonies; the Cleveland Orchestra; the Royal Philharmonic
Orchestra of London, the Israel Philharmonic, the Vienna Symphony and the
Orchestre National de France.

The distinguished soloists with whom he worked over the years included the
pianists Van Cliburn, Peter Serkin and André Watts; the violinists Henryk
Szeryng and Joshua Bell; the cellist Mischa Maisky; and the French horn player
Barry Tuckwell.

George Wolfgang Cleve was born in Vienna on July 9, 1936, to an artistic family.
His father, Felix, was a philosopher, violinist and newspaper film and dance
critic; his mother, the former Melitta Monheit, taught foreign languages and
played the piano. An aunt, Fanny Cleve, was a prominent soprano who sang under
the batons of Richard Strauss, George Szell and Otto Klemperer.

The Cleves, who were Jewish, fled Austria after the Nazi annexation of 1938,
settling in New York in 1940. As a youth, George studied the piano and violin,
graduating from the High School of Music & Art in Manhattan.

He went on to study at the Mannes College of Music, and at Tanglewood he worked
with the conductor Pierre Monteux, who became a longtime mentor.

Mr. Cleve made his New York Philharmonic debut in 1965 in a program that
included Mozart, Liszt and Berlioz. Reviewing the concert in The New York Times,
Harold C. Schonberg wrote: ''Mr. Cleve turned out to be a most talented young
man and one who steps on the podium completely assured of his right to be there.
His confidence is not misplaced.''

After holding conducting posts with the Winnipeg Symphony and the Iceland
Symphony, Mr. Cleve assumed the music directorship of the San Jose Symphony. (He
was succeeded there in 1992 by Leonid Grin; the orchestra ceased operations in
2001.)

Mr. Cleve made his Mostly Mozart debut in 1975 and over the next quarter-century
returned to the festival more than half a dozen times.

He was also a frequent guest conductor with the New York City Ballet, making his
debut there in 2000 in the world premiere of Twyla Tharp's ''The Beethoven
Seventh.'' Over the next several years, Mr. Cleve conducted performances by the
company that included George Balanchine's ''The Steadfast Tin Soldier'' and his
''Symphony in C,'' both to the music of Bizet.

Mr. Cleve's survivors include his wife, Maria Tamburrino, a flutist, whom he
married in 1986; a son, Jeremiah Wiggins; and a granddaughter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/music/george-cleve-conductor-who-interpre
ted-mozart-dies-at-79.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Cleve in 2003. He was a guest conductor for New York City
Ballet, and also appeared at the Mostly Mozart Festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOANNE
HOYOUNG LEE/SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS
(91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS
(90%); BALLET (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (89%);
MUSIC EDUCATION (89%); DANCE (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE
EDUCATION (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); MELITTA BERATUNGS-UND VERWALTUNGS
GMBH & CO KG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA,
CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); VIENNA,
AUSTRIA (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (77%); WEST USA
(73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ICELAND (79%); AUSTRIA (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Premieres for Summer's End

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CLASSICAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 169 words


The week leading up to Labor Day is typically the least-scheduled stretch in New
York's classical music season. But the intrepid Bargemusic, Brooklyn's floating
recital hall, always steps into the brink with a gala program. It does so this
week with ''Here and Now Labor Day Festival,'' an ambitious contemporary music
program, repeated four times, offering nine works in either world or New York
premieres. There are premieres of two pieces by Dalit Warshaw; a solo cello
Soliloquy by Andrew Rudin; David Del Tredici's Duo for Violin and Cello (''To Be
Sung on the Water''); Richard Sussman's Trio for Violin, Piano and Laptop; and
David Taylor's Concertino for Bass Trombone and Trio. Works by Morton Subotnick,
John Zorn and Gordon Beeferman receive New York premieres. Among the enticing
roster of 11 performers are the pianist Kathleen Supové, the violinist Jennifer
Choi and the bassoonist Peter Kolkay. (8 p.m., Wednesday, Friday and Saturday,
with a final performance next Sunday at 4 p.m., bargemusic.org.)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/music/bargemusics-here-and-now-labor-day-
festival.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathleen Supové on piano and Jennifer Choi on violin.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ETIENNE FROSSARD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%);
CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); POP & ROCK (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS
(77%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Francesca Chubb-Confer, Alexander Higgin-Houser

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 210 words


Francesca Nicole Chubb-Confer, the daughter of Judith A. Chubb of Bolton, Mass.,
and the late Charles L. Confer, is to be married Sunday at her mother's house to
Alexander Brian Higgin-Houser, a son of Doreen K. Higgin-Houser and Brian E.
Higgin-Houser of Burnsville, Minn. Janet Slagle, a maternal aunt of the bride,
received authorization from Massachusetts to officiate.

The couple met at Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., from which they
graduated magna cum laude.

The bride, 27, is keeping her name. She has a master's in Islamic studies from
the University of Chicago, where she is seeking a Ph.D. in that subject area.

Her mother is a distinguished professor in ethics and society and a professor of
political science at Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. The bride's father was the
head engineer at Thermetrix, a company that provided thermal imaging equipment.

The groom, 28, is the artistic director of the Underscore Theater Company in
Chicago and the festival director for the Chicago Musical Theater Festival.

His mother is the manager of the behavioral research laboratory at the Carlson
School of Management at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. His father
is a computer systems analyst in St. Paul for the Army Corps of Engineers.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/francesca-chubb-confer-alexan
der-higgin-houser.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE ANDERSON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); ENGINEERING (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(85%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%);
EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); THEATER
COMPANIES (72%); THEATER (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%);
BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (69%); RELIGION (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); SCIENCE
NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); ETHICS (68%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%);
THEATER & DRAMA (66%); MUSICAL THEATER (66%); FESTIVALS (66%); ARMIES (50%)

COMPANY: CHUBB CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%);
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%)

TICKER: CB (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%);
SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (78%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA
(56%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

By the Book: Ann Beattie

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1299 words


The author, most recently, of ''The State We're In'' reads more novels and
stories than anything else -- ''except, maybe, cookbooks. I avoid mysteries,
since I never understand what happens.''

What books are currently on your night stand?

''Memphis Movie,'' by Corey Mesler; ''Paragon Park,'' by Mark Doty; ''Kinder
Than Solitude,'' by Yiyun Li; ''Looking at Photographs,'' by Gordon Baldwin and
Martin Jurgens; ''Metaphysical Dog: Poems,'' by Frank Bidart; ''The New York
Stories of Elizabeth Hardwick.'' The magazines I have yet to read are layered
between these books like phyllo.

Do you have a favorite novel of all time?

Maybe Ian McEwan's ''Atonement.''

What are your all-time favorite short stories?

Among them: ''Twilight of the Superheroes'' and ''Your Duck Is My Duck,'' by
Deborah Eisenberg; ''Way Down Deep in the Jungle,'' by Thom Jones; ''Oxygen,''
by Ron Carlson; ''Nettles'' and ''The Albanian Virgin,'' by Alice Munro; ''The
Fat Girl,'' by Andre Dubus; ''We Didn't,'' by Stuart Dybek; ''Tits-Up in a
Ditch,'' by Annie Proulx; ''Bruns,'' by Norman Rush; ''Escapes,'' by Joy
Williams; ''Yours,'' by Mary Robison; ''The Dog of the Marriage,'' by Amy
Hempel; ''The Fireman's Wife,'' by Richard Bausch; ''The Womanizer,'' by Richard
Ford; ''Helping,'' by Robert Stone; ''No Place for You, My Love,'' by Eudora
Welty; ''Are These Actual Miles,'' by Raymond Carver; ''People Like That Are The
Only People Here,'' by Lorrie Moore; ''Last Night,'' by James Salter; ''Sarah
Cole: A Type of Love Story,'' by Russell Banks; ''Hunters in the Snow,'' by
Tobias Wolff; Rebecca Lee's collection, ''Bobcat.''

Whom do you consider the best writers -- fiction writers, essayists, critics,
journalists, poets -- working today?

Gay Talese's pieces. Anything by Jeremy Denk or Susan Orlean. Patrick Modiano's
novels, and John Banville's. Alice Munro's and Elizabeth Spencer's stories.
Essays: Annie Dillard, particularly ''For the Time Being.'' Joan Didion (of
course). Joy Williams's ''Ill Nature''; Charles Baxter's ''Burning Down the
House.'' Elaine Scarry's ''Dreaming by the Book.'' John Jeremiah Sullivan.
Phillip Lopate. Charles d'Ambrosio. The essays in The American Scholar are
usually excellent. Robert Richardson's biographies. Many great poets, among them
Charles Wright, Louise Glück, Charles Simic, C. K. Williams. The book reviews in
The Times Literary Supplement are really good.

What genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid?

I read more novels and stories than anything else except, maybe, cookbooks. I
avoid mysteries, since I never understand what happens.

What books might we be surprised to find on your shelves?

Etiquette books, but only old ones. My favorite is Amy Vanderbilt's ''New
Complete Book of Etiquette'' (1962 edition) that contains the sentence -- in an
example of a good thank-you note -- ''We have always wanted to see 'High Ridge'
in the peony season.'' It's the word ''the'' that slays me.

If you belong to a book club, tell us about it. If you don't, tell us what your
ideal book club would be like.

I change locations too often to be in a book club. It's hard enough getting the
mail forwarded. But my ideal? My friend Carla Rollins would provide the snacks.
It would only meet when someone was either right, or deluded about thinking what
he/she had read was truly amazing. It would meet late at night, because I have
insomnia and nobody to hang out with after midnight. I'd go first. My pick would
be Howard Norman's ''Next Life Might Be Kinder.'' (I'd be right.)

Who's your favorite fictional hero or heroine?

They all have their deficiencies, after years of reconsideration. But I suppose
Mrs. Ramsay, although she'd protest being called a ''heroine'' for all good
reason. I used to think it was so radical, the way the reader learns of her
death. Then I started getting informed of the totally unexpected deaths of my
friends in the subject line of email, which seems even more startling.

What kind of reader were you as a child? Your favorite books and authors?

My father liked books about finance and how to cure back pain. My mother read
widely, especially library books about Africa, biographies and Agatha Christie
mysteries. She'd often appear at my bedroom door with a mystery in hand and a
box of chocolates and say, ''If you want me, I'll be under No. 7.'' (She had an
electric blanket. How that didn't melt the chocolates, I'll never know.) She
also read aloud to me, but then as now I wandered out of the room if I didn't
immediately like what I heard. (I can make myself read a book, but I can't make
myself listen to one.) She and I read ''The Spy Who Came In From the Cold''
aloud to each other more than once. As a child, I loved ''The Secret Garden''
and the Mary Poppins books and (if I remember the title correctly) ''Bertram and
the Ticklish Rhinoceros.'' I thought ''rhinoceros'' was an inherently funny word
and used to stare at the title, when not actually rereading the book. I'm sorry
I don't still have it, though it can't possibly be as good as I remember. I
loved comic books. I also liked those little brochures about how to make
desserts with Jell-O, and 20 exciting recipes to make with lima beans. I was
always taking them from the kitchen drawer and studying them. I really liked the
illustrations.

Have you ever gotten in trouble for reading a book?

No. I read fast, and furtively, so who'd know?

If you had to name one book that made you who you are today, what would it be?

It would be upsetting to think that a book was responsible for who I am today.

Of the books you've written, which is your favorite or the most personally
meaningful?

''Another You.'' Its publication wasn't helped by The New York Times Book Review
titling the review to play on the title of the movie ''Bob & Carol & Ted &
Alice.'' No offense to Paul Mazursky, but this novel was not that.

If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?

I never insist that people read anything (though I do have copies sent to them).
Somehow, I don't think I'll be sending one particular book to the White House.
We'd have to chat first.

You're hosting a literary dinner party. Which three writers are invited?

I'd invite Michael Silverblatt and ask him to bring any two writers he wanted.

Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel you were
supposed to like, and didn't? Do you remember the last book you put down without
finishing?

''The Blithedale Romance.'' In a tie: ''The Sorrows of Young Werther.'' While I
don't think Robert Frost was bad, I can rarely understand a thing the man wrote.

Do you ever deliberately hate-read?

No. But I go to the gym three or four days a week and try to eat sensibly, then
sometimes eat chocolate-chip cookies at 3a.m., if that might reveal the same
thing about me.

Whom would you want to write your life story?

Harry Mathews.

What books do you find yourself returning to again and again?

''Celebrating the Negative,'' by John Loengard; ''Anthracite Country,'' by Jay
Parini; ''The Blue Strawbery Cookbook,'' by James Haller; ''Concerning the Book
That Is the Body of the Beloved,'' by Gregory Orr; ''Lolita''; Frederick
Barthelme's ''Moon Deluxe,'' among his many others. ''The Great Gatsby.''
''Almost Invisible,'' by Mark Strand (I reread two or three poems most every
day). Steven Millhauser's ''Edwin Mullhouse,'' because I open it just to reread
a page I particularly admire, then give up and start from the beginning. ''Point
Omega,'' by Don DeLillo. ''Wittgenstein's Mistress,'' by David Markson. I always
have extra copies to give away.

What books are you embarrassed not to have read yet?

''On the Road.''

What do you plan to read next?

Let's hope a new Patrick Modiano has been translated into English.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/ann-beattie-by-the-book.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JILLIAN TAMAKI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%);
FICTION LITERATURE (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); POETRY (78%); JOURNALISM
(78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drilling Deep

BYLINE: By STEPHEN BURT.

Stephen Burt is the author, most recently, of a poetry collection, ''Belmont,''
and a volume of criticism, ''Close Calls With Nonsense.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 638 words


THAT WINTER THE WOLF CAMEBy Juliana Spahr 85 pp. Commune Editions. Paper, $16.
Nobody has to tell Juliana Spahr that the personal is political: She has spent
her career inventing verse and prose forms that show how our intimate feelings
emerge, like knots in nets or waves at sea, from systems much larger than any
one person's control. ''This Connection of Everyone With Lungs'' (2005)
Â­examined the global effects of 9/11 through the metaphor of polluted air; the
piled-up details in ''Well Then There Now'' (2011) looked at Spahr's years in
Hawaii, and at her Â­origins in Appalachia, as if to ask where she could call
home.

Now Spahr lives in the San Francisco Bay Area; she joined the encampments and
protests of Occupy Oakland in 2011, though she and her young son ''never spent
the night.'' ''That Winter the Wolf Came'' is Spahr's Occupy book: Its nine
thoughtful, wiry works (three in prose, six in verse) ask how it felt and what
it means to remain a disillusioned opponent of capitalism, a
not-quite-despondent environmental observer and an anxious parent today.

It's hard to quote Spahr in ways that show how good she is, because, phrase by
phrase, she keeps her writing austere. It depends on successive overlaps, on
slow builds, so that over several pages we discover (for example) what the BP
oil spill, the dispersal of Occupy by the police, the price of Brent crude, the
flights of brent geese and the repetitions in pop songs have in common: They let
singers ''during the ongoing oil wars'' -- or birds displaced from flight paths,
or protesters swept from a park -- ''understand something about what is being
lost.''

Land and sea, oil and water, corporations and human beings: For Spahr these
things can no longer be considered separately. Spahr and her child, and you and
I, are already caught up in the dangerous skein of financial instruments and
hydrological disequilibrium. ''I hold out my hand./ I hand over / and I pass on.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. I hold out my hand and take engine oil
additive into me and then I pass on this engine oil additive to this other thing
that once was me, this not really me.'' That's Spahr's disconcerting description
of breast-feeding in our era of BPA and chlorinated naphthalenes. Other
connections cross national borders, link species and generate hope: ''The red
snapper spreads itself out in the artificial reefs of oil platforms,'' thriving
in the dangerous new place. To save the climate and the oceans, activists (Spahr
implies) must become as international as the fish, the tankers and the
contaminants, ''traveling through the circuits that already exist.''

Like Claudia Rankine's celebrated ''Citizen,'' Spahr's book is a set of
Â­interlocking parts, some lyrical, some starkly factual, best read whole. Like
''Citizen,'' it can leave you somber, or angrily alert, or simply impressed. Her
''poem about oil extraction in iambic pentameter'' tells the story of the
Deepwater Horizon spill blow by blow: ''It is almost at ten / O'clock when mud
begins its overflow- / Ing of the line and then on the rig floor.'' Facing the
excessive power of oil, Spahr's poetic ''line'' itself breaks up, gives way.

Yet Spahr sees a future for her radical cause. One essay remembers the
Â­movement, which she names Â­''Non-Revolution,'' as if it were a lover, with
''this odd patch of hair on its lower back'': ''I wanted to be with
Â­Non-Revolution and everyone Non-Revolution was with.'' Her last poem,
''Turnt'' (as in ''turned up'': excited or intoxicated), recreates a violent
night when she and her friends were ''turnt to mere vandals at moments.'' At
others, they saw -- and she can make us see -- a new world: ''We were together
but we were in it alone at the same time. Except the state was there with us.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. We knew history. We knew we would not be
together long.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/that-winter-the-wolf-came-by-juli
ana-spahr.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juliana Spahr (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOLLY MATALON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); OFFSHORE OIL & GAS
EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (77%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (75%); ISLANDS
& REEFS (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); BIRDS (68%); MUSIC (68%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (68%); POP & ROCK (68%); OIL SPILLS (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%);
OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (64%); BREASTFEEDING (60%); AIR
POLLUTION (55%)

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY
AREA, CA, USA (71%)

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Janna Burke, Gregory Spock

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 262 words


Janna Claire Burke and Gregory Michael Spock were married Saturday. The Rev.
Carol Rosine, a Unitarian Universalist minister, officiated at the Wequassett
Resort and Golf Club in Harwich, Mass.

Mrs. Spock, 31, is the director for individual giving at the Fashion Institute
of Technology Foundation, which supports the SUNY design school in New York. She
graduated from Muhlenberg College in Allentown, Pa., and received a master's
degree in music from Duquesne University in Pittsburgh.

She is the daughter of Jean C. Burke and Joseph C. Burke of Norfolk, Mass. The
bride's father is a marketing consultant for software companies. Her mother is a
financial planner. Both work from Norfolk.

Mr. Spock, also 31, is a real estate agent in New York for Stribling &
Associates. He graduated from Syracuse University.

He is a son of Linda Ciricillo Spock and Wayne R. Spock of Delray Beach, Fla.
The groom's mother retired as a clinical psychologist in Hartford. His father
retired as the chief engineer for air-management systems in the Hamilton
Sundstrand division of United Technologies in Hartford.

The couple, amateur opera singers who met in 2009 when both were part of a Bronx
Opera production, became engaged last July, while vacationing in Wellfleet,
Mass. The groom, who dropped to one knee after serenading Ms. Burke with an aria
from ''La Bohème,'' later explained that early in their relationship the heat in
his East Village building had failed and Ms. Burke took him in. ''It was
parallel to the story in 'La Bohème,' '' he said, ''but sort of in the
reverse.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/janna-burke-gregory-spock.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIELLE DONESON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); GOLF (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); FINANCIAL
PLANNING (75%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); CONSULTING
SERVICES (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (55%); REAL ESTATE
AGENTS (54%)

COMPANY: HAMILTON SUNDSTRAND CORP (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334519 OTHER
MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES &
ENGINE PARTS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING
(55%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333415
AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL
REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA
(72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Marina Bousa, Patrick Morrissey

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 251 words


Marina Louise Bousa, a daughter of Maureen F. Bousa and Edward P. Bousa of
Wellesley Hills, Mass., was married Saturday to Patrick Joseph Morrissey, the
son of Susan White Morrissey of New York and the late Kevin P. Morrissey. The
Rev. Richard W. Fitzgerald performed the ceremony at the Roman Catholic Church
of St. Mary, Our Lady of the Isle, in Nantucket, Mass.

The couple met at Williams College, from which they graduated.

Mrs. Morrissey, 25, is an actor currently appearing in a production of ''Vanya
and Sonia and Masha and Spike'' at the Dreamland Theater in Nantucket. She is
also a second-year student in the M.F.A. program in acting at Brown University,
in Providence.

Her father is a partner and a senior portfolio manager at Wellington Management,
an investment company in Boston. Her mother is a trustee of Historic New
England, a preservation organization, and the Nantucket Historical Association,
which operates a whaling museum and historic sites on the island.

Mr. Morrissey, 26, is a research assistant in Providence, studying sudden
cardiac death and other subjects, at Rhode Island Hospital and at the Brown
University Cardiovascular Research Center. He completed postbaccalaureate
studies in pre-medicine at Bennington College in June.

His mother is the founder and chief executive of White & Warren, a cashmere
clothing wholesale and retail company in New York. His father was an executive
vice president and the general merchandising manager for men's wear at Macy's in
New York.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/marina-bousa-patrick-morrisse
y.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (85%);
MEN (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ISLANDS &
REEFS (76%); HISTORY (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM
(73%); RELIGION (72%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(68%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); HEART DISEASE (67%); APPAREL WHOLESALERS (65%);
MEN'S CLOTHING (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (83%); NANTUCKET HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION (56%)

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%);
NORTHEAST USA (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Do We Mistake Inaccessibility for Brilliance?

BYLINE: By ZOE HELLER and LESLIE JAMISON

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BOOKENDS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 31 words


Each week in Bookends, two writers take on questions about the world of books.
This week, Zoë Heller and Leslie Jamison discuss whether we overvalue difficulty
in literature.

By Zoë Heller



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/do-we-mistake-inaccessibility-for
-brilliance.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY R. KIKUO JOHNSON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inventive Menus in Mitte

BYLINE: By GISELA WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; BITES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 407 words


On a recent Thursday evening in the fashionable neighborhood of Mitte, a crowd
of artists and D.J.s descended on a large marble-top table loaded with seasonal
dishes: radishes served with freshly churned kefir butter; Dutch oysters
flavored with ponzu ginger and chile. Within 20 minutes, the platters were
empty. This record release party took place at the Store Kitchen, a new
restaurant within a recently opened design emporium called the Store, off the
lobby of Soho House.

''They demolished the food,'' said Tommy Tannock, one of the two British chefs
at the Store Kitchen. ''Berlin hipsters love a free meal.''

Even when the food is not free, the Store Kitchen has been attracting a
fashionable mixed crowd of local food lovers, seasoned vegans, creative types
working on their laptops and expats craving healthy fare.

Located in the center of the Store -- a huge, loftlike space shaped like an L --
the Store Kitchen has proved to be the heart of the place since its soft opening
this spring. A large curved bar offers up a daily-changing buffet of ambitious,
vegetable-focused dishes, like a salad of kale with barley, squash, hazelnut and
sage. There are also toasts topped with smoked line-caught trout or chunks of
avocado, and vegan raw brownies and extravagant cakes from a local baker.

''We have a very similar point of view,'' Mr. Tannock said, referring to his
partner, Johnnie Collins, ''and basically want to serve what we like to eat,
which means dishes made from fresh, seasonal and ethically sourced
ingredients.''

Customers pick up their dishes at the counter and then sit at one of about 10
colorfully designed tables. Starting next month, the Store Kitchen will spread
to another section of the space and offer dinner service, serving small plates
and a quirky menu of biodynamic wines.

At the record party, Mr. Collins looked up at the hungry crowd and excused
himself. ''I need to bring out dessert.'' Ten minutes later he returned with a
large ceramic platter covered in fudgy vegan brownies served alongside coconut
kefir pudding.

''Dip the brownie in there,'' he said -- the kefir added a bright acidic tang to
the rich brownies -- then he left again to deliver them to a nearby table. Five
minutes later they were all gone.

The Store Kitchen at The Store, Torstrasse 1; 49-30-405-044-550;
thestore-berlin.com. Average meal for two, without drinks or tip, is about 16
euros, $17 at $1.08 to the euro.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/berlin-store-kitchen-restaurant-review.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among the vegetable-focused dishes, a chickpea, celery and
radish salad. GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEAT FREE DIETS (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%);
RETAIL BAKERIES (76%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Water Receded. The Anger's Still Here.

BYLINE: By JOHN BIGUENET.

John Biguenet is the author, most recently, of ''The Rising Water Trilogy:
Plays'' and the forthcoming nonfiction book ''Silence.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1191 words


New Orleans -- WHY are we still so angry? Even sympathetic newcomers can't quite
figure out why we New Orleanians are not over it a decade later.

But it's not just anger we feel. It's also a profound and abiding sense of loss.

I'm not talking about the things that were washed away. Like most others here,
my wife, Marsha, and I lost a great deal: 2,500 books, countless mementos of our
kids' childhood, a treasured recipe for rice pudding given to us as a wedding
present and, of course, a car, furniture, clothing -- just about everything.

But we count ourselves lucky. No family members died. Homeless at first,
sleeping in a day care center, where I wrote a series of eyewitness columns for
The New York Times, we still had our jobs at least. We were able to gut and
rebuild our home. We were able to stay in New Orleans. So it's hard to explain
it to newcomers, to outsiders, our anger and our sorrow.

To be fair to them, I have to admit it's difficult to grasp the immensity of
what happened here. The area flooded was seven times the size of Manhattan. If
an equivalent catastrophe had struck New York in 2005, about 24,000 people would
have died as they awaited help that did not come for a week. Nearly seven
million of its eight million citizens would have spent the next year scattered
elsewhere in the country. Over two million New Yorkers would never have
returned. It's almost inconceivable, isn't it? But that's what happened to us.

But it didn't just happen to us. Our disaster was man-made. As the United States
Army Corps of Engineers finally admitted nearly a year later, its own negligence
and incompetence were responsible for the flooding of the city. Despite that
admission, the corps relied on the legal immunity Congress had provided it to
evade all financial judgments.

That left us at the mercy of bottom-line insurance companies and the largess of
the federal government. Unfortunately, the government in 2005 was led by
individuals who objected to the costs of rebuilding an entire city and who
seemed intent on writing off New Orleans. Only days after the storm, the
Republican speaker of the House, J. Dennis Hastert, summarized the prevailing
attitude of his party: ''It looks like a lot of that place could be bulldozed.''

So perhaps it's understandable why the anger of many New Orleanians continues to
simmer. Yes, maybe we should have moved on by now. Everyone encourages us to put
the levee breaches and their aftermath behind us. As we're frequently reminded,
it's been 10 years, after all.

But when you still can't get from one end of your neighborhood to the other --
as in Lakeview, for example, where I live -- because streets continue to
collapse from the saltwater that flooded the area for weeks, eroding the earth
beneath them and the infrastructure buried there, it didn't just happen 10 years
ago. It happened this morning. And like so much else here in what's left of New
Orleans, it keeps happening, day after day.

Having returned to a sweltering house five weeks after the levees collapsed, I
dragged a ruined refrigerator gushing a fetid mix of floodwater and decomposed
food from our kitchen to the front door while Marsha walked behind me dumping
undiluted bleach from gallon jugs onto the floor to stanch the stench. So now
every time we leave town for more than a day or two, we empty our refrigerator
of everything perishable.

Before we had even entered our house that first day back, we were confronted by
what looked like snow strewn across our lawn. Only as it crunched beneath our
feet did we realize it was salt from the water that had slowly evaporated. Most
of the garden we now cultivate is marsh plants, like irises, that can tolerate
our salted earth. To grow vegetables, we have built a raised bed.

Downstairs in our house, we still haven't hung any paintings even though we
promise each other every year that, as soon as hurricane season is over, we
really are going to put up a few pictures.

There is also a new financial reality that refuses to go away. I've never let
myself calculate how much money the collapse of the levees cost us. But when my
homeowner's insurance bill arrives each year, I'm reminded that insurance for my
house tripled after the flood while my deductible increased from $500 to nearly
$13,000.

Still visible today on the outside of my parents' former home is a fading X
spray painted by soldiers who broke through the roof of their two-story house
searching for the dead. A zero in one quadrant confirms that no bodies were
found. In the top quadrant of the X is the date: 9/11. That X is painted beneath
my sister's old bedroom window -- on the second floor of the house. Nearly two
weeks after the levees collapsed, the water was still at least 10 feet deep
there. The soldiers had come in a boat. Such markings still tattoo walls
throughout the city.

And every day, just a few blocks from my home, I pass houses where New
Orleanians drowned in their bedrooms or died of dehydration trapped in their
attics.

Boosters like to point out that New Orleans is younger and wealthier than it
used to be. But it's a younger city, at least in part, because with home repairs
beyond the means of those on fixed incomes and with drastically reduced medical
care available to those suffering from chronic conditions, few of the elderly
were able to return in the first few years after the flood. And if it's
wealthier, that is much more a result of the poor being dispossessed than
millionaires moving to town.

Some quietly add a third difference to ''younger and wealthier'': whiter. New
Orleans is home to 100,000 fewer African-American residents than before the
flood. For those still here, poverty has worsened, with annual median household
incomes 54 percent lower than those of white families -- and 20 percent lower
than black households nationally. Not surprisingly, black neighborhoods have
been much slower than white ones to rebuild.

From the time of the city's founding, African-Americans have played a defining
role in shaping the culture of New Orleans, a culture cherished by locals and
envied by the millions of visitors a year who flock to the Big Easy. With the
percentage of black New Orleanians declining, the city is undergoing a
fundamental change.

So for better and worse, we live in a new New Orleans. In the past, when locals
worried that an influx of new arrivals would change the city, I always reminded
them that people don't change New Orleans -- New Orleans changes people. But
with the cultural memory of the elderly lost, with the post-flood demographics
altering the delicate ecology of a community unlike any other in the United
States, I wonder if my ready answer is still true.

An outpost at the mouth of the continent's greatest river, New Orleans has
survived fires and plagues and wars and hurricanes over the centuries. But in
2018, when those of us still here commemorate the 300th anniversary of the
city's founding, will we play the slow dirges of a funeral procession to bury
something we loved or the raucous tunes we were taught by our grandparents, as
we dance home from the cemetery, still alive?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/new-orleans-the-big-uneasy.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Markings made by rescue workers on this home in the Lower Ninth
Ward of New Orleans, and on many others in the city, are still visible today.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDMUND D. FOUNTAIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); IMMUNITY
(71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); ARMIES (66%); INSURANCE (65%); CIVIL
ENGINEERING (62%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ashley Beach, Brian Brooks

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 272 words


Ashley Broyhill Beach, a daughter of Marilyn Broyhill Beach and Robert T. Beach
of Winston-Salem, N.C., was married Saturday to Brian Lee Brooks, a son of
Martha Kelley Brooks of Nashville and Philip B. Brooks of Westwood Hills, Kan.
The Rev. Dr. Michael B. Brown performed the ceremony at Centenary United
Methodist Church in Winston-Salem, with the Rev. Katharine W. May, who is the
associate minister for children at the church, taking part.

Mrs. Brooks, 28, is an assistant vice president for business banking in the
Winston-Salem offices of Wells Fargo Bank. She graduated from New York
University and received an M.B.A. from Wake Forest.

Her father retired as a partner in Salem Investment Counselors, a portfolio
manager in Winston-Salem. Her mother is on the boards of Senior Services and the
Children's Law Center of Central North Carolina, both in Winston-Salem.

The bride's maternal grandfather, James T. Broyhill of Winston-Salem, is a
former Republican United States senator from North Carolina. Her paternal
grandfather, the late P. Goff Beach of Madison, Wis., was the chairman of Oscar
Mayer Foods. Her great-grandfather, J.E. Broyhill, was a founder of Broyhill
Furniture Industries.

Mr. Brooks, 34, is a vice president for market-risk management at Branch Banking
and Trust Company in Winston-Salem. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma
and received an M.B.A. from the University of Oxford in England.

His mother is a nanny in Nashville. His father is the vice president of the
Foundation Properties Corporation, a company in Wichita, Kan., that develops and
manages residential communities for the elderly.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/ashley-beach-and-brian-brooks
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MCG PHOTOGRAPHY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); RISK
MANAGEMENT (75%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); BANK
BRANCHES (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS (66%)

COMPANY: BRANCH BANKING & TRUST CO (67%); WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); BROYHILL
FURNITURE INDUSTRIES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS
(67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED
(55%)

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (93%); WICHITA, KS, USA (72%); MADISON, WI, USA
(68%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%);
TENNESSEE, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Encarnacion Drives in Nine as Blue Jays Pound Tigers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 393 words


Edwin Encarnacion hit three homers and tied a Toronto record by driving in nine
runs Saturday as the Blue Jays routed the visiting Detroit Tigers, 15-1.

Encarnacion extended his hitting streak to 24 games, the longest in the majors
this season, with a three-run homer off Buck Farmer (0-3) in the first inning.

Encarnacion hit a two-run shot off Guido Knudson in the sixth, then connected
for a grand slam, his third of the season, against Alex Wilson in the seventh as
the Blue Jays battered away.

RANGERS 4, ORIOLES 3 Bobby Wilson lined a tiebreaking single with two outs in
the sixth inning, and Adrian Beltre hit his 13th home run as host Texas beat
Baltimore.

The Rangers widened their lead for the second American League wild-card spot to
a game and a half.

ASTROS 4, TWINS 1 Mike Fiers followed his no-hitter with another stellar start
for Houston, pitching into the seventh inning with three hits allowed in a
victory at Minnesota.

INDIANS 8, ANGELS 3 Yan Gomes's eighth-inning grand slam capped a five-run
rally, and Cleveland defeated visiting Los Angeles.

CARDINALS 6, GIANTS 0 Lance Lynn pitched neatly into the eighth inning before
leaving with an ankle injury that was not considered serious, beating host San
Francisco for the first time as St. Louis blanked the Giants.

ROYALS 6, RAYS 3 Mike Moustakas had three hits and drove in three runs as Kansas
City won at Tampa Bay.

NATIONALS 5, MARLINS 1 Clint Robinson and Ian Desmond hit back-to-back home
runs, Jordan Zimmermann pitched seven innings, and Washington beat visiting
Miami.

PIRATES 4, ROCKIES 3 A resurgent J. A. Happ worked into the sixth inning, Aramis
Ramirez hit a three-run homer, and host Pittsburgh held off Colorado.

REDS 12, BREWERS 9 Joey Votto put the visiting Reds ahead with a two-run home
run in the ninth inning, and Cincinnati came back to beat Milwaukee.

ATHLETICS 3, DIAMONDBACKS 2 Stephen Vogt hit a homer into the Chase Field
swimming pool and drove in three runs as Oakland beat Arizona.

MARINERS 7, WHITE SOX 6 Kyle Seager hit a two-run homer during a three-run first
inning, and Seattle held on in Chicago.

PHILLIES 4, PADRES 3 Adam Morgan pitched six strong innings and drove in the
eventual winning run for host Philadelphia.

The Phillies' Aaron Altherr singled in the fifth inning, breaking his string of
seven extra-base hits to start his career.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/mlb-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); DETROIT TIGERS (91%); TEXAS RANGERS
(83%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (57%); HOUSTON ASTROS
(56%); MINNESOTA TWINS (56%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (55%);
ANAHEIM ANGELS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (54%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA
(76%); MIAMI, FL, USA (76%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (76%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%);
OAKLAND, CA, USA (69%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); TAMPA, FL, USA (56%); KANSAS
CITY, MO, USA (54%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%);
PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (76%);
FLORIDA, USA (76%); TEXAS, USA (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); MINNESOTA, USA
(70%); OHIO, USA (58%); MISSOURI, USA (54%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); PENNSYLVANIA,
USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rangers Rise After Trip to Woodshed

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; EXTRA BASES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1447 words


The bold summer revival of the Texas Rangers began immediately after they hit
bottom. On July 28, three days before the nonwaiver trading deadline, the
Rangers scored five runs in the first inning against the Yankees. Then they gave
up the next 21 runs of the game, without getting a hit.

''That was a sobering moment,'' said Jon Daniels, the Rangers' general manager,
whose team fell to 47-52 with that loss. He was not interested in renting a
pitcher for the stretch drive.

''But we knew that this off-season, we were going to need to address our
pitching staff,'' Daniels said. ''How much of that work could we do right now?''

By planning for the long term, Daniels said, the Rangers could also benefit from
whatever help the new players might provide this season. And with two starters
returning from injuries, he was not quite ready to concede, anyway.

So the day after the thumping by the Yankees, the Rangers agreed to an
eight-player deal with the Philadelphia Phillies. Texas got the ace starter Cole
Hamels and reliever Jake Diekman. The Phillies got five prospects and the
left-hander Matt Harrison.

Starter Martin Perez had just come back from a torn elbow ligament. Another
starter, Derek Holland, was on his way back from a shoulder problem. Daniels
added Sam Dyson, a young reliever with a power sinker, in a deal with Miami.

The moves stabilized the pitching staff, and the offense -- including Prince
Fielder, who missed most of last season with a neck injury, and new additions
like Mike Napoli and Will Venable -- has been among the best in the American
League during the second half of the season. The Rangers won 19 of their next 28
games, starting the day after the Yankees debacle, and held the lead for the
second A.L. wild-card spot through Friday. Hamels is 2-1 in five starts, with a
3.89 E.R.A.

In Hamels, 31, they have an affordable ace for years to come. The Rangers had
pursued him in a trade in 2012, before he signed a six-year, $144 million
contract extension with the Phillies. They reopened trade talks last winter, and
the Phillies promised to scout the Rangers' farm system for a match.

As part of the trade, the Phillies included $9.5 million and absorbed Harrison's
contract, meaning the Rangers got Hamels for less than $14 million per year,
through 2018.

''We feel like with the body, the athlete, how easy he does it, the changeup,
the command -- those things all added up for the long term,'' Daniels said. ''If
he loses a tick velocity-wise, with his command of the changeup, the curveball
and the cutter, he's got weapons.''

If Yu Darvish returns from Tommy John surgery next spring, as expected, Hamels
will have another star to join him atop the rotation. The Rangers, who were
ravaged by injuries last season and lost 95 games, never dwelled on the loss of
Darvish. Daniels credited the new manager, Jeff Banister, for his positive
approach.

''We knew going into the year that we had a lot of open-ended questions,''
Daniels said. ''Was Prince going to bounce back? What about all the medical
questions on our pitchers? The new manager, the new culture, how was it all
going to come together? We had a pretty good idea we were going to get positive
answers on a lot of those questions, so we had a kind of quiet confidence. But
we had to see it.''

They saw enough to add to the roster, instead of tearing it down, even when the
record -- and the product, for one dreadful night -- looked weak. The rewards
have already begun.

The Once and Present Pitcher

He might seem to be just another pitcher with a high earned run average,
languishing in the bullpen of a struggling team. But the Philadelphia Phillies'
Adam Loewen is in the major leagues, again -- as a pitcher, again. Those facts
alone make his story remarkable.

Loewen was chosen fourth over all by Baltimore in the 2002 draft, two picks
before Zack Greinke. A left-hander from a British Columbia high school, Loewen
is the highest-drafted player ever from Canada. He reached the majors at 22.

In three seasons for the Orioles, from 2006 to 2008, his statistics did not
match his promise. Loewen had eight victories in 41 games, a 5.46 E.R.A., nearly
six walks per nine innings -- and two stress fractures in his elbow.

''Four-and-a-half-inch screw, made of titanium,'' Loewen said, gesturing to his
left elbow the other day at Citizens Bank Park. ''It's still in there. I can
kind of feel the head of the screw in the back.''

Doctors told Loewen they did not know how long it would take his elbow to
recover, if it ever did. In 2009, he joined the Toronto Blue Jays as an
outfielder, starting over in Class A. He reached the majors in September 2011,
going 6 for 32, with a homer.

But he could not escape the minors with the Mets or again with Blue Jays the
next two seasons. His 15 homers at Class AA did not inspire another team to
offer Loewen a contract for 2014, and without a backup career plan, he turned to
his arm for another chance.

After five years off from pitching, it responded well enough to earn a tryout
with the Phillies. They signed Loewen, who returned to Class A for another climb
up the ladder.

''When I started throwing off a mound again, I didn't know what was going to
happen,'' Loewen said. ''It ended up going really well. The foundation, as far
as what I was as a pitcher, was kind of laid back when I was 19 to 24. I got
some big league experience that doesn't really go away. It's always in you. So
coming back last year, it took a couple of months, and then I felt like myself
again.''

Loewen pitched well enough as a minor league starter last season, but thrived in
relief this year. He had a 2.01 E.R.A. in 40 minor league games and earned a
promotion three weeks ago. The results have been mixed -- a 6.30 E.R.A. in seven
appearances through Friday -- but Loewen said his experiences had allowed him to
think more clearly on the mound. He has been through the worst.

''As a pitcher, I always knew it was in there; it was just a matter of staying
healthy,'' he said. ''But to make it back up a third time, it's like a third
chance. I feel really grateful and blessed that my arm's responded the way it
has.''

Debate Over Roster Expansion

With rosters expanding on Monday from 25 active players to a maximum of 40, get
ready for the annual debate about the fairness of that rule. Nothing besides the
designated hitter has been around for so long and inspired so much
consternation.

''I hate that,'' Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said. ''To me, that's stupid. You
should get 26 all year and add two or three at the end, if you want. But it's
too much. The game is played so differently when you've got five left-handers.
It's not right. That's the most important part of the year.''

Promoting extra pitchers from the minors, at least, keeps the better relievers
from having to work mop-up innings in blowouts. In theory, the better relievers
get more rest. Yet managers, especially of winning teams, may not encounter many
games like that, anyway.

''To just think you're going to grab four or five more arms -- well, are they
good?'' Pittsburgh Manager Clint Hurdle asked. ''Can they get outs? Because if
they can't get outs, you're right back to where you started.''

Yet some teams with smaller payrolls, and more imperfections on their rosters,
often favor expanded rosters because they can promote a player with a specialty
skill -- a left-handed pitcher, a slugger off the bench, a pinch-runner. To
them, the cost of a few September call-ups is preferable to the season-long
extra roster spot Girardi prefers.

More realistically, Girardi said, he would advocate a system in which a manager
declares up to three extra players eligible for each game. Those players would
be taken from the maximum of 15 added to the roster Sept. 1, but no more than 28
would be active for any game. But even that is imperfect.

''To me, if the roster should be increased, it should be in April,'' Girardi
said. ''That would get guys a chance to get in shape and built up.''

Ideas like this are often discussed at the general managers' meetings in
November, but changing roster size is not as easy as it might seem.

''There have been times where there's been some consensus among G.M.s,'' Indians
General Manager Chris Antonetti said, adding: ''But when you add on the layering
factor of getting ownership support and then negotiating an equitable
arrangement that the union signs off on as well, it becomes a little more
complicated than just fixing what some people have identified as a problem.''

In other words, while the issue is always a popular source of debate, the safest
bet for an outcome seems to be the status quo.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/sports/baseball/texas-rangers-rise-after-a-tri
p-to-the-woodshed.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cole Hamels was sent to Texas as part of an eight-player deal
with Philadelphia arranged on July 29, the day after the Rangers lost to the
Yankees, 21-5. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS &
INJURIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); SPORTS INJURIES (73%); NECK DISORDERS &
INJURIES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (94%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (82%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Children Among Migrants Crammed Into Bus Are Hospitalized in Austria

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE; Palko Karasz contributed reporting from London.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 424 words


VIENNA --  Three small children found crammed into a small van with 23 other
migrants were hospitalized with severe dehydration in northern Austria, narrowly
averting another fatal tragedy for refugees fleeing the Middle East and risking
their lives with smugglers, the police said Saturday.

The police found the children around 4 a.m. Friday after a chase of a suspicious
vehicle spotted near the Austrian-German border near Braunau.

The discovery came less than 24 hours after the Austrian police found 71
decomposing bodies in a truck southeast of Vienna.

The driver of the vehicle intercepted Friday initially ignored the police
appeals to stop, said the police spokesman, David Furtner. Eventually, the
driver stopped, and the police found the 26 refugees.

Five-year-old twin girls and a 6-year-old boy, all from Syria, were in
life-threatening condition and taken immediately to the hospital in Braunau, Mr.
Furtner said. Their conditions have since improved, he said.

The driver, a 29-year-old Romanian, has been arrested, Mr. Furtner said.

The grisly discovery of bodies near Vienna has drawn international attention to
the trafficking business behind the migration of tens of thousands of people
fleeing war and despair in the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

On Saturday, three Bulgarians and one Afghan who are suspects in that fatal
smuggling case appeared in court in Kecskemet, Hungary, and were ordered to
remain in detention pending trial on charges of human trafficking involving
torture and financial gain. Officials would not release their identities, and
provided few details, but said the suspects had picked up the 71 migrants on the
Serbian border.

Ferenc Bicskei, president of the Kecskemet regional court said in a news
conference that the local courts had lately been seeing 25 to 30 human smuggling
cases each month, and that in response sentences would be more severe.

During the past day, the Hungarian police said, they had detained 2,822 people
who crossed the border illegally and started criminal proceedings against 13
smugglers who had tried to drive migrants, crammed in trucks, through the
country.

The migrants found on Friday in the van were from Syria, Bangladesh and
Afghanistan, the Braunau spokesman added. All have declined to apply for asylum
in Austria, saying they want to continue to Germany. This will most likely mean
that they will be sent back to Hungary under European Union rules that state
that migrants should be registered in the first member state they are proved to
have entered.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/europe/austria-migrants-syria.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); REFUGEES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%);
ALIEN SMUGGLING (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); CHILD TRAFFICKING
(78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ARRESTS (77%); POLICE FORCES
(77%); LITIGATION (75%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (73%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (71%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (91%)

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRIA (96%); GERMANY (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); HUNGARY (93%); SYRIA
(92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); ROMANIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SERBIA (79%);
EUROPE (79%); ASIA (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Shelter From the Storm

BYLINE: By RONDA KAYSEN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ASK REAL ESTATE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 978 words


Punishment by Canopy

More than two years ago, our landlord removed the canopy in front of our
apartment building because he wanted to make it less comfortable in rain or
strong sunlight for building staff, who were picketing over a labor
disagreement. The issues have been more or less settled, but the canopy has not
been replaced. Our building, which has a mix of rent-stabilized and market-rate
tenants, is in a reasonably upscale neighborhood, and all the other comparable
buildings have canopies in good condition. It is frequently inconvenient,
especially on rainy days, not to have the canopy. Is our landlord under any
legal obligation to restore it?

Midtown East, Manhattan

Your landlord certainly found an odd device to use as a cudgel against
disgruntled employees, since it ultimately reduces the value of his property. A
canopy ''is a service to the building, it creates value for him when he's
renting his apartments,'' said Steven W. Birbach, the president of Vanderbilt
Property Management.

While the market-rate tenants have no leverage here, the rent-regulated ones can
certainly make some noise to get that canopy back.

Depending on when the canopy was installed, striking it could be considered a
reduction of services, entitling rent-regulated tenants to a rent reduction,
according to Dov Treiman, a landlord-tenant lawyer. The tenants should file a
complaint with the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, which oversees
such apartments. There is no fee.

Once tenants start paying a reduced rent, the landlord may realize the high cost
of his decision. ''When the landlord does the math,'' Mr. Birbach said, ''he'll
quickly install the canopy.''


Dividing an Inheritance

My wife and my brother-in-law have inherited their parents' Brooklyn Heights
brownstone, which, unsurprisingly, is worth a lot of money. My brother-in-law
and his wife have lived in the downstairs apartment for many years and want to
continue living in the house. We have our own house and no interest in moving.
Everyone wants to be fair in dividing the estate. How should we proceed?

Brooklyn Heights, Brooklyn

My advice: Proceed with caution. With a lot of money involved -- as in the case
of a Brooklyn Heights brownstone -- things can turn ugly fast.

''I've never seen a situation like this work out long term,'' said Steven M.
Schanker, an estate and trust lawyer. ''At the very beginning everybody is
huggy-kissy, then things happen.''

Your wife and her brother should sit down and have a serious conversation about
what they want, perhaps with a lawyer present to help guide them through their
options. The simplest solution would be to sell the property, divide the
proceeds and walk away.

But since your brother-in-law has no desire to move, that plan might not fly. If
your brother-in-law has the means -- and your sister is willing to part with the
property -- he could buy her out. If the property has not been appraised
recently, both parties should have it appraised to determine its fair market
value.

If that scenario does not pan out, then the siblings could form a limited
liability company to operate the building. Your brother-in-law and any rental
tenants would pay rent to the L.L.C., which would cover the building's expenses.
Any profits would be divided between the siblings.

To proceed in this way, the siblings should draft an operating agreement that
anticipates issues that could cause conflict. For example, how much rent should
your brother-in-law pay, and would it rise with the market? Who pays for
repairs? And here is a biggie: Whose children inherit the brownstone?
(Eventually, several generations might stake a claim.)

''Even when there is nothing to fight about,'' Mr. Schanker said, ''the families
find something to fight about.''


Who Collects the Security Deposit?

I am a college student living in a market-rate rental with three other
roommates. The tenants who rented the apartment before us paid their security
deposit to the landlord. Now the landlord wants us to pay our security deposit
directly to the previous tenants so he does not have to refund their money. He
says it is easier that way. But the lease says we are supposed to pay the
security deposit directly to the landlord. When our lease is up, our landlord
says the new tenants will pay us our security deposit. I do not like this idea.
Is it legal, even though it contradicts the lease?

Flushing, Queens

Well, this plan would certainly make your landlord's life easier -- he would not
need to cut anyone a check or process any incoming money. But to do it legally,
he would need to get everyone involved to sign on.

''There is nothing necessarily illegal about this situation if all parties --
the landlord, the outgoing tenants and the incoming tenants -- agree in
writing,'' said David E. Frazer, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants.

If you pay your security deposit to the outgoing tenants, the landlord would be
obligated to continue to hold the original security deposit in trust for you and
your roommates. He cannot, however, require you to recoup your deposit from
future tenants who do not yet exist.

There are potential complications, which might explain your trepidation. What if
the previous tenants damaged the apartment? Who should deduct damages from their
deposit? What if the tenants who replace you agree to the deal, but write you a
bad check? What recourse would you have?

If you are uncomfortable with this plan, say no. Explain your concerns to the
landlord, telling him that you prefer that he handle the money and that he
follow the terms of the lease. If he insists -- or if you run into trouble
getting your security deposit back at the end of your lease -- file a complaint
with the New York State Attorney General's office, which provides mediation
services for tenants dealing with security deposit issues.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/dear-landlord-wheres-our-building-c
anopy.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL KOLOMATSKY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY
(90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS
(78%); STRIKES (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
(73%); WORKPLACE MORALE (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%);
ESTATE  GIFT & TRUST LAW (70%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Last Strains of Summer

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | NEW JERSEY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1149 words


For fans of live music, the end of summer signals the tapering off of festival
season, not to mention barbecues and beach trips. But in New Jersey, September
is shaping up to be as robust a month for outdoor multi-act concerts as June or
July.

Two new festivals may stave off late-summer melancholy for rock fans. The Food
Truck and Rock Carnival in Clark will bring Slash and the Stone Temple Pilots,
among others, and a lot of food. Its organizer called it '''Wayne's World' with
food trucks'' in a recent phone interview. And Shadow of the City in Asbury Park
will skew younger, with acts including Bleachers and MisterWives. Both events,
like the other festivals listed below, should extend summer's party well beyond
Labor Day.

SEPT. 4-6: DELAWARE VALLEY BLUEGRASS FESTIVAL, WOODSTOWN 302-321-6466;
delawarevalleybluegrass2015.org.

The organizers of the 44th annual event, at the Salem County Fairgrounds, are
not purists. In addition to traditional, Appalachian-style bluegrass, they
occasionally bring in country or Cajun performers. This year is no exception:
Marty Stuart and his band, the Fabulous Superlatives, known better in country
than in bluegrass circles, will be a headliner. Sixteen other acts will play the
festival, which moved to New Jersey from Delaware in the '90s, Carl Goldstein,
its founder and coordinator, said, because ''we just ran out of space.'' Steve
Riley & the Mamou Playboys, a band from Louisiana with Cajun roots, and Hot
Rize, a Colorado four-piece straight-ahead bluegrass band, are among the acts
expected to attract up to 6,000 people from as far as Europe, Mr. Goldstein
said.

Other attractions include a children's stage, jam sessions and a clog-dancing
workshop. Tickets range from $25 for a single-day student pass to $80 for an
adult weekend pass.

SEPT. 6: WILDWOOD BLOCK PARTY & MUSIC FESTIVAL, WILDWOOD 609-729-9000;
wildwoodsnj.com.

This free party presented by the City of Wildwood has been taking place annually
for roughly a decade, but this year's installment is likely to draw a much
bigger crowd for a day of music, crafts, games and rides.

''We normally get around 5,000 people, but this year, with Chubby, we're
expecting up to 10,000,'' said Ben Rose, of the Greater Wildwoods Tourism
Improvement and Development Authority, which sponsors the festival. Chubby is
Chubby Checker, the 1950s rock icon who introduced his seminal ''Twist'' at a
music club in Wildwood 55 years ago. ''We're celebrating his return to Wildwood
this year and expect this to be one of our best festivals yet.''

SEPT. 18-20:  FOOD TRUCK AND ROCK CARNIVAL, CLARK  therockcarnival.com.

''We wanted to put together a festival that celebrates the rock 'n' roll
lifestyle,'' said John D'Esposito of Colts Neck, the creator of this new
four-stage event drawing more than 40 music acts, including Slash, Black Label
Society and Anthrax. ''Jersey is one of the strongest rock 'n' roll markets
around, and we haven't had a festival that caters to that market,'' he said.

Mr. D'Esposito, also the founder of the Bamboozle festival and producer of the
Skate and Surf Festival in Asbury Park, explained that those events represented
pop and punk. ''This is rock 'n' roll, the music I grew up on,'' he said. ''It's
the first festival I've done that a father and son can go to together.'' There
will also be 40 food trucks, a craft beer village, rides and appearances by
professional wrestlers.

''This festival is long overdue, Mr. D'Esposito, who is expecting more than
15,000 guests, said. Admission is free for the beer garden, food truck area and
activities like wrestling, skills games and arcades; live music tickets range
from $39.99 for an adult single-day pass to $249.99 for a weekend V.I.P. pass;
children under 10 are admitted free.

SEPT. 18-19: BOOTS AT THE BEACH, NORTH WILDWOOD 609-770-8839;
bootsatthebeach.com.

This free country-music festival is the first installment of what the Anglesea
Irish Society, the local organization behind it, hopes will become an annual
tradition. A Friday night Bar Hoodang will place country bands and D.J.s in
North Wildwood bars. Activities on Saturday include four bands and craft and
food vendors. Acts include Philbilly, a band known to get a crowd dancing, and
Steel Creek, a ''new country'' cover band from Pennsylvania.

SEPT. 19: SHADOW OF THE CITY, ASBURY PARK shadowofthe.city.

Jack Antonoff, frontman of the chart-topping band Bleachers and a member of the
hit machine Fun., is behind this one-day, one-stage festival at the Stone Pony
Summer Stage. Charli XCX, MisterWives, Cults, the Front Bottoms, How to Dress
Well and Robert DeLong will perform, with Bleachers as the headliner. The title
of the festival reflects Mr. Antonoff's feelings for his home state; he is from
Bergenfield and spent summers at the Jersey Shore near Asbury Park.

''When you grow up 10 miles away from the greatest city in the world, it's like
you're constantly looking in the window of the party,'' Mr. Antonoff said. ''So
much of what I do is based off that -- the songs I write, my entire childhood,
the core of who I am is about that. You have a lot of hope and excitement, but
you always feel slightly less-than.''

To emphasize the New Jersey-ness of the festival, Mr. Antonoff has arranged for
local food trucks, a Weird N.J. pop-up stand and arcade games from the local
pinball museum. Tickets are $59.50.

SEPT. 19: OSPAC JAZZ AND BREW FESTIVAL, WEST ORANGE 973-669-7385; ospac.org.

The Oskar Schindler Performing Arts Center began its annual jazz festival in
2001. In 2013, ''they were reorganizing, so they skipped a year,'' said Susan
Anderson, executive director of the New Jersey Arts Incubator, which took over
the event last year. Now, she said, the festival is offering beer and wine.

Its sloping amphitheater includes an 800-foot stage with enough room for an
18-piece orchestra, Ms. Anderson said. The brew festival is next to a small
lake, but the internationally celebrated lineup of jazz greats is the main draw,
said Robert DeVos, the festival's artistic director.

Included on this year's roster: the Bill Charlap Trio, Oscar Perez and the Dave
Stryker Quartet. Gary Walker of WBGO-FM will be the host of the event. The rain
date is Sept. 20. Tickets are $10.

SEPT. 27: BBQ SHOWDOWN, SOUTH AMBOY855-478-6888; irunnewjersey.com.

The popularity of barbecue competitions accounts for the crowd of 25,000 that
turned up for the inaugural BBQ & Country Music Festival last year, said Diana
St. John, president of the production company iRun New Jersey, which organizes
the free event. ''But country music goes so well with barbecue; people set up
lawn chairs and spent all day listening,'' she said.

Ms. St. John expects more of the same this year. Three bands, including the
bluegrass-leaning Mark Miklos Band from East Brunswick, are on the bill
alongside the food trucks and barbecue vendors.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/new-jersey-festivals-offer-jazz-blueg
rass-and-a-chance-to-do-the-twist-again.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above left: Mandy Lee of MisterWives
Jack Antonoff of Bleachers
Nick Catanese of Black Label Society
and Marty Stuart. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE C. MITCHELL/INVISION
 CHRIS PIZZELLO/INVISION, AXEL HEIMKEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY, JACOB
BLICKENSTAFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS &
ARTISTS (89%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%);
POP & ROCK (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES
(78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); CHILDREN (70%);
INTERVIEWS (70%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Gilding of the Gold Coast

BYLINE: By KARIN LIPSON

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | STONY BROOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1053 words


Did Otto Hermann Kahn, a banker, financier and arts patron, have a rival Long
Island estate on his mind as he built his own palatial house, Oheka, in
Huntington in 1917?

There's no written evidence of that, said Joshua Ruff, chief curator of the Long
Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages in Stony Brook, where he
has organized the exhibition ''Gilding the Coasts: Art and Design of Long
Island's Great Estates.''

When it comes to the enormously wealthy crowd that created these estates, Mr.
Ruff said that ''you have to look more at their actions than their words.''

So, some actions: About 13 miles west of Oheka was a Roslyn estate, Harbor Hill
(since demolished). One of the largest mansions ever built in the country, it
sat on one of the highest points on Long Island.

When Kahn built Oheka, Mr. Ruff said, he had ''massive amounts of earth''
brought in to elevate the terrain, making Oheka ''the highest point on Long
Island.'' It also was the second-largest private residence in the country at the
time. (The largest was Biltmore, in North Carolina.)

But rivalry was just part of the story of these mansions, which had once been
strung along the Long Island coastline ''in an almost unbroken chain,'' in the
words of an excerpt from a century-old newspaper article mounted on one wall of
the exhibition. ''We're talking about palatial structures that are really meant
to say something about the success of their owners,'' Mr. Ruff said. And what
could better trumpet that success than houses built by the very best architects
and designers and filled with the finest objects, from antique statuary and
baronial furniture down to custom-designed silverware and fireplace tongs?

Once numbering more than 1,000 on Long Island, these estates are mostly gone,
victims of disastrous fires, suburban development or the crippling expense of
maintaining them.

Some of the lavish furnishings and art objects, though, have survived, and a
selection of these, along with architectural renderings, blueprints, archival
photographs and explanatory videos, make up ''Gilding the Coasts.''

But the show isn't intended to document the Gatsbyesque existence of some
heedless millionaires (though it does display a first edition of F. Scott
Fitzgerald's ''The Great Gatsby,'' with its North Shore setting). ''It's not
just the lifestyles of the rich and famous,'' Mr. Ruff said. ''It's much more
the artistic part of the equation.''

That equation was formulated after the Civil War, at the dawn of the Gilded Age.
This is when members of ''the Four Hundred''-- a coterie of mostly old-money
socialites from New York City -- built country pleasure spots on the relatively
accessible South Shore of Long Island, near the Great South Bay.

One of the most dashing among them was the young James Hazen Hyde, heir to an
insurance company fortune, whose commanding, three-quarter-length 1901 portrait
by Théobald Chartran hangs in the exhibition. Was there ever a more ''master of
the universe'' look than the one leveled at us by the handsome 25-year-old?

Hyde was master of the Oaks, in Bay Shore, where he indulged his love of
carriage-driving and the sporting life. Near his portrait stands a carriage --
one of 25 he owned, Mr. Ruff said. Whatever the ostensible professional demands
on Hyde, ''he had ample free time'' to sample his carriages, Mr. Ruff said
wryly. Just four years after this portrait, though, Hyde left the country for
France, under the cloud of a possibly trumped-up financial scandal.

With the heyday of the Gilded Age, estate-building migrated to the North Shore,
later dubbed the ''Gold Coast.'' There, craftsmen like Samuel Yellin, a notable
Philadelphia metalworker, created wondrous decorative additions to the exteriors
and interiors of the mansions.

Among Yellin's commissions for Eagle's Nest, the William K. Vanderbilt II estate
(now the Suffolk County Vanderbilt Museum) in Centerport, was a weather vane
with a nautical theme, on view in the exhibition. Near its top, a three-masted
ship rides the waves, avidly pursued by a trio of sea monsters.

Yellin and his ilk may be the unsung heroes of the Gold Coast estates, Mr. Ruff
said. ''There were a lot of hands and minds,'' he said, ''and not simply the
ones that normally get the ink.''

One who definitely got the ink was the architect Stanford White, whose firm,
McKim, Mead & White, designed some of the era's most iconic buildings.

At Box Hill, White's home in St. James, he tested out his eclectic,
then-unorthodox approach to interiors. The exhibition, re-creating a portion of
the dining room, displays an Italian walnut bench from about 1700; Asian
copper-and-brass plates on a lotus blossom theme from the mid-19th century;
18th-century majolica plates; and other diverse artifacts, many of which were
part of the original dining room. ''A lesser talent would have created a junk
shop'' from such juxtapositions, Mr. Ruff said. But White saw beyond any
supposed clash of cultures or centuries. For him, Mr. Ruff said, ''it was about
texture, color -- the same things that drove Tiffany.''

That's Louis Comfort Tiffany, the glassmaker and artist. The exhibition's
display on Laurelton Hall, Tiffany's 580-acre estate in the town of Oyster Bay,
includes a couple of Tiffany watercolors (''Arab Scene'' and ''Chinese Market,''
both painted around 1872) that reflect the Middle Eastern and Far Eastern
influences on his work; a lamp and vase featuring his iridescent favrile glass;
decorative artifacts; and paintings by other artists.

Laurelton Hall burned down in 1957, though much of its artwork was saved. (Some
is in the Morse Museum in Winter Park, Fla.; a celebrated loggia is in the
Metropolitan Museum of Art.)

As Mr. Ruff writes in the exhibition catalog, four other Long Island estates,
including Inisfada in North Hills -- once the fourth-largest private house in
America -- have been destroyed in the past five years alone. ''How much loss of
this artistic legacy,'' he asks, ''are we willing to tolerate?''

''Gilding the Coasts: Art and Design of Long Island's Great Estates'' runs
through Oct. 25 at the Long Island Museum of American Art, History and
Carriages, 1200 Route 25A, Stony Brook. Symposium on the great estates, Oct. 3.
Information: 631-751-0066; longislandmuseum.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/precious-objects-from-vanishing-estat
es-on-long-island.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: A pink party dress worn by Christine
Brown Smith, a pink silk gown that belonged to Louise Gallatin Gay and an
evening opera cape that belonged to Garetta Reboul Lawson
a life-size portrait of James Hazen Hyde by Théobald Chartran hanging alongside
Hyde's carriage
a wrought-iron weather vane by Samuel Yellin
 and artifacts from Box Hill, the Stanford White Estate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHNNY
MILANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION
(78%); HISTORY (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ART
HISTORY (72%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (71%); SUBURBS (50%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yale Students Campaign for All That Jazz

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | NEW HAVEN; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1020 words


Michael Hoot and his compatriots value their hard-won seats in the Yale Jazz
Ensemble, a Yale University-sponsored big band. So it did not sit well when
Thomas C. Duffy, who as university director of bands had led the ensemble for 34
years, suspended its operations for the coming year -- and possibly beyond --
citing a loss of rehearsal space and a lack of qualified brass players.

''The students I know who played in the band and are involved in jazz were
really let down by that,'' said Mr. Hoot, a saxophonist. But Mr. Hoot, who will
be a junior this year, is not taking the situation lying down. He and his fellow
band members hope to reconstitute the ensemble as a student-led activity, just
one example of what they, along with sympathetic faculty members, are doing to
promote jazz on the New Haven campus.

''Yale can do a better job of jazz studies,'' said Brian Kane, an associate
professor in the music department and an adviser to the student activists.

Mr. Kane, who teaches a course in jazz harmony, is one of two professors in the
music department who regularly teach jazz; a smattering of jazz courses are
offered in other departments. None of those courses offer performance
instruction.

The Yale School of Music, a graduate conservatory, has supported jazz by hiring
Willie Ruff, a scholar and musician who has taught musicology and theory and run
a concert series since 1972. It has also supported Mr. Duffy in his work with
the jazz ensemble, an extracurricular activity. Both Mr. Ruff and Mr. Duffy are
professors in the school of music. But those are the exceptions. ''Our mission
is real clear,'' said Robert Blocker, the dean at the Yale School of Music. ''We
train people in the Western canon and in new music.''

In an attempt to broaden Yale's musical mission, the student activists have
revived a group, the Yale Undergraduate Jazz Collective, and set themselves
ambitious -- some say quixotic -- goals.

''We want to push Yale as a university to ultimately welcome jazz as a
curricular offering alongside classical music in both the music department and
the School of Music,'' said Alexander Dubovoy, a senior and the current
president of the collective.

The collective, he said, has been building a community of like-minded students.
At present, he said, the group's registration list counts about 50 student
musicians, a number that should grow after Thursday, when it recruits freshmen
at a music-filled orientation featuring student-run combos and a jam session.

The event, to be open to the public, will be in the Saybrook Underbrook Theater,
a basement space in a Yale residential college, where the collective hosts about
five meetings a semester that bring together up-and-coming professionals and
students. The collective also stages on-campus minifestivals featuring
established names like the pianists Vijay Iyer and David Hazeltine. Over three
years, the festivals have doubled annual attendance to 600.

Translating such numbers into course changes is another story. Mr. Dubovoy said
his plans for the school year might include lobbying for a certificate in jazz
studies, drawing on elements of the program at Princeton, where students qualify
after completing four related courses, taking part in educational outreach and
performing in one of the music department's jazz groups.

But Yale does not offer classes in jazz performance. With the suspension of the
jazz ensemble, it does not sponsor extracurricular jazz bands. Nor does it offer
lessons for credit with practitioners of the jazz repertory, though qualified
undergraduates can take lessons with classical musicians through the School of
Music.

Studying through the School of Music is ''something I personally would love to
do,'' said Mr. Hoot, the incoming president of the collective.

''That's tough for jazz since the graduate school is so classically oriented,''
he said. ''I'm a saxophone player, but the School of Music doesn't even have a
sax teacher.''

Mr. Blocker said that hiring a saxophone teacher had been discussed, but that
discussions focused more on finding a teacher who specialized in the classical
repertory. ''A teacher who teaches that,'' he said, ''is not likely to be the
teacher who's going to be teaching or talking about the performance practices of
John Coltrane.''

Given the entrenched structure for resource allocation at Yale, Mr. Duffy said
it was ''highly unlikely'' that the collective would achieve its curriculum
goals through lobbying. He suggested that the students start by signing up for
the music department's course in chamber music performance. ''The department
would have to adjudicate whether they want chamber music credit to be given to
jazz groups,'' he said.

Whatever tack the students take on curriculum matters, he said, would be
separate from his deliberations on the jazz ensemble, whose fate as a
university-sponsored endeavor he will be exploring while the renovation of
Hendrie Hall, where the band had rehearsed, was being completed. That has been
scheduled for next year.

He said he had encountered a shortage of qualified trombone and trumpet
students, a situation he observed at other Ivy League schools trying to muster a
big band. While he offered to lend music to the collective as it tried to
reconstitute the jazz ensemble, he said he would be ''stunned'' if they could
sustain 17 top-flight section players throughout the year.

Mr. Hoot acknowledged the ''immense amount of work'' that would be required.
Nonetheless, he can find some precedent for success in the history of
entrepreneurial big bands at Yale; in earlier decades, the bands landed dates on
New York City stages and even recording contracts -- a history Mr. Ruff said
today's collective was embracing. ''I'm having the time of my life,'' he said,
''watching them trying to recreate at least an appreciation for the music that
drove all this.''

The Yale Undergraduate Jazz Collective Freshman Welcome Concert is at 7 p.m. on
Sept. 3, Saybrook Underbrook Theater, 242 Elm Street, New Haven. Free admission.
Information: 608-320-6092 or yale.edu/jazzcollective.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/yale-students-campaign-for-all-that-j
azz.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A jam session on the Old Campus by members of the Yale
Undergraduate Jazz Collective included Alexander Dubovoy on keyboard (also,
below left), Sam Frampton on guitar, Jake Backer on bass and Michael Hoot on
saxophone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILL GEARTY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (91%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%);
SPONSORSHIP (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%);
WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC
(89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC EDUCATION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(87%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); THEATER (77%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (76%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%)

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tumultuous Time for Two Regions

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 174 words


It's always interesting to learn what a rich, acquisitive institution like the
Museum of Modern Art has added to its collection. The latest report is the
exhibition ''Transmissions: Art in Eastern Europe and Latin America,
1960-1980,'' which opens on September 5 and will present some 300 artworks in
numerous mediums, many on view for the first time. Nearly all date from around
1968, a period when art radically diversified, sometimes dematerializing
altogether. These works represent artists from distant regions whose efforts ran
parallel in terms of strategies (largely Conceptual, frequently
performance-oriented), political contexts (often oppressive) and interests
(protest, mass media, popular art). Some names -- Valie Export, Ana Mendieta,
Edward Krasinski, Juan Downey, Fernando Botero -- will be familiar; others will
be much less so. The show will surely reflect the MoMA's desire for a broad
global reach, but perhaps also the aesthetic narrowness of its relentless
elevation of Conceptual-oriented work. (Through Jan. 3, moma.org.)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/arts/design/moma-presents-an-exhibition-on-eas
tern-european-and-latin-american-art.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Marisol Escobar's ''Love''
Juan Downey's ''Map of America.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARISOL ESCOBAR
 JUAN DOWNEY/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK, VIA THE MUSEUM OF MODERN
ART, NEW YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); EASTERN EUROPE
(72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Companies' New Hires

BYLINE: By JONAH BROMWICH

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; APP CITY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 480 words


We have come to expect our smartphone apps to accomplish any simple task we ask
of them: order food, get from here to there, read the news and maybe buy tickets
to a movie or a concert. But when they offer to do complex tasks, it's best to
remain skeptical.

I've looked at apps that promised to help their users find gainful employment
before, but a new app called Planted is distinguished by the type and quality of
the jobs that it connects applicants with.

The app, formerly known as Lynxsy, claims to specialize in helping recent grads
find nontechnical roles at start-ups. Planted makes money by charging companies
a fee based on salary when they hire its users.

A candidate is asked upon registering with Planted to complete a questionnaire
and upload a résumé. The questions are quirky (''Does your family hate playing
you in Monopoly because you refuse to lose?'') but are meant to give the app a
baseline for the roles a candidate is best suited for. Users are then assigned
''career totems'' (mine was a cat), after which the app begins to suggest
suitable jobs.

The questionnaire is so short that it is hard to believe Planted is gaining a
thorough understanding of its users. The initial options I was shown were for
sales positions, roles in which I have no interest whatsoever, and jobs I would
have been sure to avoid if the questionnaire had been more direct.

Depending on the desperation level of the unemployed person, though, it might be
a relief to see that there are available jobs in the world, period. And once the
résumé is attached, the user can start the application process with a single
tap.

Of course, there remains the question of actually getting the job: Planted
cannot guarantee anything other than that these companies are generally looking
to hire.

Planted claims that seven in 10 candidates who apply to a given company will
receive an interview. The app has more than 20,000 users on the platform, and is
partnered with more than 500 start-ups. Its founders say that ''over 200''
candidates have been hired since the service was launched.

But while Planted isn't likely to hook users up with their dream jobs, it does
excel at identifying real start-ups that are actually hiring. The job search is
demanding and exhausting, and one of the hardest parts is simply finding new
places to apply. Planted helps to solve that problem.

Susan Zheng, one of the app's founders, suggested that Planted's goal was simply
to ''surface these interesting opportunities at companies that our users
normally wouldn't find otherwise.''

That's a refreshingly modest pitch, and something that can absolutely help
applicants, whether or not they end up getting the job through Planted.

App Planted

Platform iOS 7.1 or later

Price Free

Have a favorite New York City app? Send us a tip by email to appcity@nytimes.com
or by Twitter to @Jonesieman.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/an-app-connects-users-with-start-ups-
that-are-hiring.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH HITZ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW BUSINESSES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE
(89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS
(76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SALES FORCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 81 words


An article last Sunday about Film Fatales, a collective of female directors that
addresses gender inequality in the movie industry, misidentified the location of
Rhode Island Film Forum festival. It is held in Providence, not Newport. The
article also incompletely rendered the title of the film Li Lu directed and was
taking to the Las Vegas Film Festival and the Boonies International Film
Festival in Pennsylvania. It is ''There Is a New World Somewhere'' not ''A New
World Somewhere.''



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); FILM FESTIVALS (90%); FILM (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS
& EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (88%); ENTERTAINMENT &
ARTS (88%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (85%)

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (90%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (71%)

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 31 words


A picture caption last Sunday with an article about art inspired by Hurricane
Katrina rendered incorrectly the name of an artwork by Carlie Trosclair. It is
''Fissure,'' not ''Fissure?''



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (85%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Between Day and the Dark

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ALBUM; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 304 words


These last nights of summer, the dark never quite arrives, not in the city. It
lingers in the future, along with the fall harvest and the winter cold, not so
much an absence of light as the ink for a page unready to be written yet. It
will come, bringing definition and clarity. For now there is just miasma.

Lynn Saville's photographs of New York at night capture that near-dark moment
when one state of being is just about to become something else: an abandoned
storefront straddles its past and future identities; the ethereal figure of a
girl on the High Line appears to be navigating between this world and the next.

These images, on exhibit at Pratt Institute until Oct. 2 and to be published in
a book called ''Dark City: Urban America at Night'' in October, also map the
city's economic churn. Formerly industrial areas burst with residential life,
while shops on Madison Avenue turn into empty hulls.

Ms. Saville, 65, said she had been drawn to a contradiction inherent in shooting
the city at night, when the natural world imposes its face on the urban streets,
but only through artificial light. One thing notably absent from these
nightscapes is any sense of danger or menace. The night is benign.

''It shows how much the city has changed,'' said Ms. Saville, who has lived in
New York since the 1970s. Still, she added, ''Anyone who goes into Central Park
at night should go with someone and stick to the roads.''

For those who do venture in, she said, the rewards are always surprising. ''The
arcade by Bethesda Fountain is almost like the Alhambra. And then you go out to
the fountain and it's so dark I have to bring a headlamp or a flashlight. But I
often run into runners, musicians, romantic couples, different ones each time''
-- a summer theater tapped out in the muted light we sometimes call darkness.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/nyregion/new-york-captured-between-the-day-and
-the-dark.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: ''Corner, Brooklyn''
''Mural, Ninth Avenue at 42nd Street, New York City''
''High Line, New York City''
''Lobby, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York''
''Waring Envelope Warehouse, Brooklyn, New York''
 and ''Van Dyke Street, Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNN
SAVILLE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); RETAILERS (70%); SINGERS
& MUSICIANS (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ritu Ahuja, Rohit Khanna

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 237 words


Ritu Ahuja and Rohit Khanna were married Saturday in Cleveland. Pandit Ashok
Bhargava officiated at Severance Hall, the home of the Cleveland Orchestra.

Until April, Mrs. Khanna, 36, was a product marketing specialist in New York for
Bulgari, the Italian jewelry and accessories company. She graduated from
Georgetown and received a master's in strategic communications from Columbia.

The bride is a daughter of Usha Ahuja and Monte Ahuja of Hunting Valley, Ohio.
The bride's father is the chairman of Mura Holdings, an investment firm, and is
the chief executive of Transmaxx, an automotive transmission parts supplier,
both in Solon, Ohio.

Mr. Khanna, 38, is the vice president for strategic initiatives in the Santa
Clara, Calif., office of Smart Utility Systems, an energy-efficiency software
company. He is also a lecturer in economics at Stanford University, and a
Democratic candidate for Congress from Cupertino, Calif. From 2009-11, he worked
for the Obama administration as a deputy assistant secretary of commerce. He
graduated from the University of Chicago and received a law degree from Yale.

The groom is a son of Jyotsna Khanna and Vijay Khanna of Churchville, Pa. The
groom's mother retired as a substitute special-education teacher in the Council
Rock School District in Newtown, Pa. His father retired as a chemical engineer
in the Springfield, Pa., office of Rohm & Haas, a manufacturer of chemicals.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/ritu-ahuja-and-rohit-khanna.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG PAULSON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); HOLDING
COMPANIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (77%);
ENGINEERING (77%); CHEMICALS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (75%); PRIMARY &
SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%);
SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (70%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (70%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY &
CONSERVATION (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); CHEMICALS
MFG (65%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (57%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (54%)

COMPANY: ROHM & HAAS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY
OF CHICAGO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING
MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (86%); CHICAGO,
IL, USA (78%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS,
USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Prominent Afghan Officials Are Killed as Taliban Strike Targets in South

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND; Taimoor Shah contributed reporting from Kandahar,
Afghanistan, and Fazal Muzhary and Mujib Mashal from Kabul.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1140 words


KABUL, Afghanistan --  Taliban insurgents killed three prominent local
government officials and at least nine other people in three separate attacks in
southern Afghanistan on Saturday.

The attacks came as the insurgents continued to hold the strategic district of
Musa Qala in Helmand Province, which fell to them on Wednesday, in the face of
what witnesses described as an intense bombardment by American warplanes.

The tempo of Taliban attacks in the south, and on so many different fronts, was
worrisome in itself, even as the insurgents continued to press government forces
on new fronts they had opened in northern Afghanistan in recent months, in
Badakhshan, Faryab and Kunduz Provinces. In the past four days, at least 50
government soldiers, police officers, militiamen and officials are known to have
been killed throughout the country.

The attacks in the south have already drawn American forces deeper into the
conflict than at any point since their combat role officially ended Dec. 31. As
the Musa Qala District fell on Wednesday, members of a United States Air Force
Special Tactics Squadron were rushed into Camp Bastion, recently renamed Camp
Antonik, the military headquarters of Helmand Province.

American military officials said the soldiers deployed there -- believed to
number 90 Special Operations troops -- were part of the NATO and American-led
coalition's noncombat, ''train, advise and assist'' mission. On their first
night, however, as they were returning from a late night operation to the base,
now run by Afghans, they were challenged by Afghan guards. Two of them were
killed in the ensuing firefight. The nature of the late-night operation was
unclear.

Afghan officials said it was a case of mistaken identity, and Afghan forces have
been nervous after attacks by insurgents dressed in the uniforms of the Afghan
military and the police and even the American military.

The Pentagon identified the two dead Americans as Capt. Matthew D. Roland, 27,
of Lexington, Ky., and Staff Sgt. Forrest B. Sibley, 31, of Pensacola, Fla.,
both members of the Air Force's Special Tactics squadrons. Such squadrons
contain Special Operations troops, commonly employed on close air-support
missions, where ground controllers help direct airstrikes. Their deaths raise to
five the number of American soldiers killed in the Afghan conflict this year. At
least six American contractors have been killed as well.

While the train, advise and assist mission is supposed to preclude combat
operations, it does allow for American troops to conduct counterterrorism
missions, such as against Al Qaeda, and to provide force protection in
emergencies. The insurgents in Musa Qala are entirely Taliban forces.

''The coalition is now providing air support, and both Afghan and coalition
forces are carrying out aerial bombardment and targeting Musa Qala District, and
soon we will conduct ground operations to clear up the area,'' said Mohammad
Rasoul Zazai, the spokesman for the Afghan National Army's 215th Corps in
Helmand. He said that 50 Taliban fighters had been killed in the bombardment so
far, but added that the most intense strikes were yet to come.

''It is important to note whenever the U.S. conducts airstrikes, a U.S. JTAC
must be on the ground directing the strike to ensure they are conducted within
our rules of engagement,'' said Col. Brian Tribus, an American military
spokesman. A JTAC is a joint terminal attack controller, a soldier who guides
airstrikes from the ground.

Afghan security officials and residents of Musa Qala described several days of
intense bombing of Taliban positions in the district, a strategic crossroads
that was long held at great cost by American Marines and British Royal Marines.
The bombing, which continued through Saturday, had so far not dislodged the
insurgents from the district government center, and they had also besieged two
Afghan National Army bases on the outskirts of the district center. Afghan
helicopter gunships were defending those bases, believed to have about 100
soldiers each, from Taliban attackers.

In the Taliban takeover of the district, six Afghan police officers and soldiers
were killed and 20 were wounded, with the Musa Qala police chief among the
wounded, said Bashir Ahmad Shakir, head of the security committee for Helmand
Province.

''I am blaming the Afghan security forces for having no coordination among
themselves,'' Mr. Shakir said. ''We have been asking and pleading to the
authorities that for God's sake, save the districts and make a plan.''

Mohammad Hashim Alokozai, a member of Parliament from Helmand Province, said
that only increased involvement of American forces could save Musa Qala. ''I am
sure without their help the Afghan government will not be able to recapture the
district,'' he said. ''Close coordination with foreign forces is a must.''

On Thursday, commanders of the 215th Corps met at Camp Bastion with American
military leaders and officials from Kabul, according to Afghans at the camp, to
develop a strategy to retake Musa Qala. Afghan special forces were being
deployed to help, along with the stepped-up American airstrikes, officials there
said.

Western diplomats and military officials have said the American military has
been stretching the rules of its counterterrorism mission to allow for Special
Operations troops to enter the fight against Taliban forces, even where no
coalition forces are directly threatened, a posture that seems to go far beyond
what American officials have publicly said American troops would be allowed to
do after the combat mission ended in 2014.

Elsewhere in southern Afghanistan, the three attacks on Saturday together killed
at least 12 people, according to Afghan officials. In Ghazni Province, Taliban
insurgents attacked a remote checkpoint of the Afghan Local Police in the Andar
District at 2:30 a.m. Saturday, killing six police officers, including the
commander, a prominent leader known only as Abdullah, according to a member of
the provincial council, Amanullah Kamrani.

In Oruzgan Province, on the highway between the provincial capital, Tarinkot,
and the city of Kandahar, about 10:30 a.m. Saturday, the Taliban ambushed a
government convoy escorting the provincial security chief, Rahimullah Khan, and
the head of the Shura Council, Maulvi Lal Mohammad. Maulvi Mohammad was killed,
along with a tribal elder and their driver, but Mr. Khan escaped, said Dust
Mohammad Nayaab, the spokesman for the provincial government.

In the Chora District of Oruzgan, a bomb was set off that killed the deputy
district police chief, Amir Mohammad, and two bodyguards, Mr. Nayaab said.

On Tuesday in Oruzgan, 10 members of the Afghan Local Police were killed in a
Taliban attack, which also took the lives of nine civilians, according to Afghan
official reports.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/world/asia/prominent-afghan-officials-are-kill
ed-by-taliban-in-3-attacks-in-south.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS
(89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); ARMIES (76%); US
AIR FORCE (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); AIR FORCES (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (76%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA
(52%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Mountain High Enough

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1660 words


There he was in Bhutan, one of the world's most remote locations, fighting a
combination of an infection and altitude sickness -- which, considering where
Dave Ventresca was laying his head at that moment, did not seem all that unusual
to him.

''An emergency room in a developing country, well, what was I to expect?'' Mr.
Ventresca, 45, said of this hospital where dried blood was scattered about, as
were swarming flies.

The truly unusual part of the adventure was the reason behind this visit to
Bhutan for Mr. Ventresca, a senior manager for marketing and strategy in New
York with a digital-services branch of Accenture, the management consulting and
technology services company.

His girlfriend, My Luu, a manager at IBM in Yorktown, N.Y., had set a goal of
running a marathon on all seven continents. Having competed in Alaska,
Australia, Brazil, Iceland, Ireland, New Zealand and Tanzania, only Asia and
Antarctica remained to be conquered.

But where in Asia? Ms. Luu had eschewed runs in places like Japan, South Korea
or even her birth country of Vietnam in favor of Bhutan, which was just the sort
of exotic location she also favored when vacationing.

Mr. Ventresca willingly participated in the three-day camping trek at 14,000
feet in elevation, but he harbored no thoughts of participating in the Bhutan
marathon, or any other race.

What was tugging him along was his fascination with Ms. Luu's adventurous
nature, which he had observed over the months they had dated. He said that he
figured that by accepting her invitation to tag along near the top of the world,
he would be afforded another peek into her view of life.

Though Mr. Ventresca recovered quickly, Ms. Luu was sure she had ruined the
relationship.

''On the flight back, I was 100 percent certain he would break up with me,''
said Ms. Luu, 41. ''You know, 'Thank you for a nice trip and have a nice life.'
I had dragged this regular guy to the middle of nowhere.

''But then, I thought, if that were not to happen, then this is probably the
guy. I guess I had known that in my mind, but my heart had needed convincing.''

Mr. Ventresca and Ms. Luu had been introduced in 2013 through Match.com, the
online dating service.

''At the time, I was not in a relationship,'' she said. ''I wasn't even really
looking. I dated plenty through the years, but I hadn't found anyone with whom
to spend the rest of my life.''

''When he reached out to me through the dating site, I was on a family vacation
in Italy, so I ignored his email for weeks,'' she said. ''But he was persistent.
I remember looking at his profile and thinking that he expressed a very positive
attitude and tone. And I like to keep positive folk around me who make the most
out of life and who like to explore.''

The initial problem was that they were each too busy traveling and exploring.
''We had a quick lunch date, but then he was off to Scotland with a group of
friends, then I was in Boston, and so on,'' Ms. Luu said. ''At least a month had
gone by, and by then I was sure he had lost interest.''

But his persistence kicked in again.

As they began dating she invited him to join her in Bhutan, and simultaneously
on a future trip to a marathon in Antarctica in March 2017. He enthusiastically
signed on for both. ''I was thrilled,'' she said. ''This was a big commitment,
of money, of time.''

It is not as if the two had been social neophytes. As Mr. Ventresca's father,
also called Dave, said, ''This was not his first rodeo.''

They were still making plans to go to Bhutan when Mr. Ventresca professed his
love for her over dinner.

''I knew there was a good chance if I said I loved her, she wouldn't say it back
to me,'' he said. ''But I said to myself if this is in my heart, I should not
fret about her response. Life is too short, and I was already 44.''

When he blurted out, ''I love you,'' his low expectations were met with a tepid
''Oh, that is really sweet of you to say.''

''I tend to be much more cautious about opening up, and I just wasn't quite
ready to say those words,'' Ms. Luu said. '' Still, I was eager to get to know
him better. He had met my family, and in my heart I was definitely getting
there.''

Her caution was not without reason. Her formative years, spent in Saigon, were
anything but easy. In 1979, her ethnically Chinese family escaped Vietnam on a
boat and were lost at sea when a United States Navy ship rescued them and took
them to a refugee camp in Malaysia. (''I was one of the lucky ones,'' she said.)
They stayed there for 13 months before they could emigrate to Houston, sponsored
by Ms. Luu's uncle.

Mr. Ventresca, who is part of a large extended Italian-American family, had a
more all-American upbringing, first in northeast Philadelphia and then in the
nearby northern suburbs. He graduated from Saint Joseph's University and has
spent most of his life and career in Philadelphia and New York, primarily in
marketing.

Ms. Luu picked up English quickly; she graduated from Yale and received an
M.B.A. from Cornell, Later on, she got a job in Uzbekistan for the United States
Embassy there.

''When the Soviet Union disintegrated in the 1990s, the State Department was
eager to find people who spoke Russian, so I got into a special program which
bypassed the normal foreign service exams and went there right away,'' she said.

Ms. Luu now leads a team at IBM that seeks to improve technology access for
those who are aging or have disabilities.

''She is an organizer and a connector,'' said Ajit Pai, a friend from Yale.
''She loves to have everyone in her life connected and excited about things.''

One of the ways she stayed connected was by becoming the president of the Yale
Alumni Association of New York. After committing to the seven-continent-marathon
challenge, she decided she wanted to bring everyone along, so she arranged
weeklong trips, with guides and social/historical itineraries, and got the Yale
club members to join in.

''She makes us all have fun,'' said Edward Roberts, one of the Yale group. ''And
then she stays friends with everyone.''

That is apparently also true of Mr. Ventresca. ''When you are friends with Dave,
you are friends for life,'' said Michael Hajdak, Mr. Ventresca's best friend in
first grade.

Lynda D'Angelo, Mr. Ventresca's sister, concurred: ''Dave doesn't let you go
once you are in his life, and he includes you in everything.''

Which has been a key reason he and Ms. Luu formed such a close bond.

She recounted an early date when she was sick and knew she would have to cancel
their dinner out. But he insisted on getting dinner to bring over to her
Gramercy Park apartment.

''When I am sick, I just want to be alone and get well, but I also didn't want
to offend him, so I said O.K.,'' Ms. Luu said. At some point, he called to say
he was running late.

''I told him he didn't have to bother, but he said, 'Well, I was making this
stock and it was taking longer than I thought.' I'm thinking, 'Stock? Wasn't he
just going to buy some chicken soup at a deli.' But, no, he spent the day making
his own stock, then homemade Italian sausage to put in the soup. 'I just want to
make sure you feel better,' he told me.''

She added: ''He wants to make everyone happy with every detail, making things
special. He has no guile, just a good heart.''

''Not much after that, I told him I love him,'' she said.

''He proposed on Dec. 6,'' she said. ''He had a whole day of surprises
planned.'' Among them was a visit to the site of their first date in Gramercy
Park, and then to a nail salon (''What man thinks of that?'' she said). Then he
gave her a photo book that included a printout of an Excel grid chronicling
their dating history.

With her head still spinning, Mr. Ventresca, before getting down on one knee,
pulled out a laptop. She said, ''He began playing a series of videos put
together by some 20 friends and family members, with all of them encouraging me
to say yes.''

Their wedding took place on Aug. 7 at the Carriage House, a party space in
Galloway, N.J. The bride walked the aisle in a floor-length champagne-colored
dress by Mark Zunino with a chapel train and elaborate beading throughout. Mr.
Ventresca and his groomsmen wore ivory dinner jackets with shawl collars and bow
ties.

The ceremony was led by the Rev. Elizabeth McGlinn, who was ordained through the
Independent Church of Religious Science, Church of Divine Light. After that, the
guests were kept busy with cocktails as the couple and their immediate families
disappeared to another room for a Chinese tea ritual, in acknowledgment of the
bride's heritage.

A few weeks after the wedding, Ms. Luu, who admits, ''I'm a slow runner,''
reminisced about the Bhutan trip:

''Here I was, running in the middle of nowhere, and he just kept coming up with
these little things that were so encouraging. For instance, I was halfway
through the marathon, it's drizzling, and I'm completely soaked and about to
give up, when there he is with a bright fluorescent sign that he had obviously
made at home and had hidden from me. On one side, it said, 'My Luu = My Hero.'
He had just been sick, but here he is smiling and just so proud and supporting
me on so many different levels. It was a huge turning point for me.

''How could I not marry a guy like that.''

Read more: Bridget Nugent and Dean Reineking: Embracing an Adventure of a
Lifetime

Jared Milrad and Nathan Johnson, Stars of Hillary Clinton's Campaign
Announcement Video

ON THIS DAY Where The Carriage House, Galloway, N.J.Where Aug. 7, 2015Details
The cocktail hour featured a special nonalcoholic drink -- a My-jito -- that was
named for the bride. Among the appetizers was a whole roast pig with a Phillies
cap on, testimony to the groom's Philadelphia sports fandom. Once guests were
seated at their tables, waiters brought jumbo lump crab cakes as a first course.
That was followed by a choice of oven-roasted petit medallions of beef or
dill-crusted salmon.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/my-luu-and-dave-ventresca-no-
mountain-high-enough.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Dave Ventresca and My Luu at a post-ceremony tea ritual to
acknowledge Ms. Luu's Chinese heritage. Above, the bride and groom's first
dance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK MAKELA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); COURTSHIP & DATING (89%);
ONLINE DATING SERVICES (88%); DATING SERVICES (84%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (76%); MARATHONS (73%); HIKING (70%); MANAGEMENT
CONSULTING (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (56%)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING
SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: BHUTAN (90%); JAPAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); VIET NAM (79%); BRAZIL
(79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA
(73%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (56%); ANTARCTICA (56%); ICELAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In the Heart of the Balkans, a City Transformed

BYLINE: By ALEX CREVAR

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2214 words


You begin to understand Tirana, the capital of Albania, the first time you try
to cross the city's main road, which locals simply refer to as Boulevard. There
are zebra-striped crosswalks, and cars stop if they must, but the feat is
something akin to stage diving into a free-form automotive ballet. Confidence is
the operative word here -- coupled with an understanding that Albanians live by
a rhythmic, improvisational code: Fill space when it's free.

On a steamy day in late June, I found my rhythm and crossed Boulevard from
Tirana's central Skanderbeg Square. As I dodged the traffic on my way to a
meeting with Edi Rama, the prime minister of Albania, it dawned on me: I have
been driving a car since 1986 -- five years before anyone in this entire
country, except for the few granted special permission during the Albanian
dictator Enver Hoxha's suffocating style of Communism, which lasted more than 45
years.

When I entered the Prime Ministry building, I was whisked to Mr. Rama's office.
As the mayor of Tirana from 2000 to 2011, Mr. Rama, the charismatic head of the
Socialist Party, was responsible for covering the city's once-gray Communist
buildings with kaleidoscopic paint jobs. Today, the palette of bright colors
provides explosions of gaiety across this wide-open Balkan capital founded in
1614 by an Ottoman general named Sulejman Bargjini.

''My purpose here is not political,'' I told him after we shook hands. ''I am a
travel writer covering Tirana.'' Mr. Rama, 51, who is also an artist and a
former member of the national basketball team, visibly relaxed and kicked his
feet, L.B.J. style, onto his desk crowded by containers of colored markers. But
instead of a suit and cowboy boots, he wore khakis and artsy black sneakers. His
office's custom wallpaper pattern was covered with prints of his mazelike doodle
drawings, for which he is famous.

''What you see today was not the city [in 2000] -- every green space you see was
occupied by illegal buildings,'' he said, adding that the crackdown on illegal
construction along the banks of the Lana River alone resulted in the removal of
123,000 tons of concrete. Mr. Rama paired this removal with the city's colorful
makeover, which has become its calling card.

''When we started painting, two things would happen,'' Mr. Rama told me.
''First, people that had the shops would start to get rid of the grids [covering
windows] ... because they felt safer. And the second effect was that they
started paying taxes.'' I asked the prime minister how it feels to live in the
Albanian capital, which endured a despotic regime until 1991 and is now
democratic. ''You live with change,'' he said. ''You live with a need to change
every day.''

For visitors, that change manifests itself in a palpable urban energy. Framed by
the 5,291-foot Dajti Mountain to the east, Tirana is a dense tangle of 1920s
Italianate villas, mirrored skyscrapers, Ottoman-era cobblestones, markets
selling loose tobacco and crates brimming with vegetables, and cafe terraces
where stylish young people sip macchiatos. Scattered throughout are chunky
Communist structures splashed with eye-popping colors.

Skanderbeg Square is the center of town and a prime example of the green spaces
Mr. Rama resolved to reclaim. Businessmen and -women rushed across the square,
bordered by avenues and studded with grassy islands. Here and there people
lounged on the grass, eating watermelon and fanning themselves under trees. This
leafy nexus is where a visitor can get an architectural, and thus historical,
sense of Tirana, which became the capital in 1920. One quarter of Albania's
population of three million lives here.

Standing in front of the bronze equestrian statue of a sword-wielding Gjergj
Kastrioti (known as Skanderbeg in English), a national hero who revolted against
the occupying Ottoman Empire in 1443, I turned in a circle. To my right was the
Ethem Bey Mosque, completed in 1823. About 65 percent of Albania's population is
Muslim, and on that day, the middle of Ramadan, a crowd gathered around the
terra-cotta-roofed mosque to pray. Behind me stood the mustard-yellow,
Baroque-style ministry buildings designed by Fascist-era Italian architects in
the 1920s. Beyond, I could just see the blue-capped rotunda of the Resurrection
of Christ Orthodox Cathedral, which opened in 2012.

I walked to the square's northern end and the National Historical Museum with
its huge exterior mosaic, a tribute to Albanian history, from the Illyrians to
World War II partisans. A tour guide, Viktor Sharra, informed me that the blocky
socialist structure was opened, in 1981, during ''Hoxha's time''; those last two
words were uttered with such frequency during my stay, and about so many
subjects, that they began to sound like one word: HoxhasTime. (Hoxha, pronounced
HO-ja, ruled Albania from 1944 to his death in 1985.)

Inside, Mr. Sharra and I strolled through the 193,750-square-foot exhibition
space among more than 5,000 pieces from the Paleolithic period to the end of
Communism. We passed Hellenic busts, Illyrian coins, cannons, and documents
declaring Albanian independence in 1912. Back outside, Mr. Sharra looked at me
seriously and quoted Churchill: ''The Balkans produce more history than they can
consume.''

I turned down the southern section of the main drag, officially called Boulevard
Deshmoret E Kombit, or Martyrs of the Nation Boulevard (the northern half is
Boulevard Zogu 1, named after Albania's president-turned-king Ahmed Zogu, who
served from 1925 to 1939). More than 85 years ago, when Boulevard was still
being built, a visiting French architect reportedly exclaimed: ''I have seen
cities without boulevards, but I never saw a boulevard without a city.''

This is no longer the case. Today Boulevard is lined with four- and five-star
hotels, banks, boutiques, the Palace of Culture -- housing the National Theater
of Opera and Ballet and the National Library -- and the National Arts Gallery,
with rotating exhibitions on the first floor and an excellent collection of
socialist realism paintings on the second.

On my way to meet a journalist friend, Alda Bardhyli, for coffee, I saw evidence
of the kind of disparity that is typical of post-Communist countries shifting
quickly to the free market. A gleaming Mercedes cruised alongside a rickety
one-speed bicycle carrying three people. Just ahead of me, a woman in go-go
boots and a skintight, leopard-print dress was trying to keep up with an old man
in a tattered coat and straw fedora on an asthmatic scooter.

''For many years people in Albania had little -- there were no cafes, no bars,
just work,'' said Ms. Bardhyli, adding that during the time of Communism all
work was collectivized and people had ''normal jobs'' and clocked in at
factories and mines. Today, businesses have privatized and, though unemployment
hovers around 13 percent, there is an entrepreneurial spirit -- evidenced by the
many shops, restaurants and bars -- and a noticeable taste for Western
consumerism.

We sat on the patio of Komiteti, a cafe that also calls itself a museum. It was
filled with HoxhasTime relics. Antique radios lined shelves next to
Communist-era books. At the bar, which serves 25 flavors of Albanian liquor
called raki, garden rakes hung upside-down from the ceiling with wineglasses
slotted between their teeth. ''People here like foreign things because we were
closed without TV, travel and communication with the world,'' Ms. Bardhyli said.
''They missed things during Communism and are now making up for it.''

We headed to the nearby Taverna e Kasap Beut for lunch. The Verushi sisters run
the homey restaurant, where strings of garlic and peppers hang next to painted
plates and earthenware jugs. The sisters are the kind of Balkan matrons who
smile wide when they see strangers and even wider when they see regulars. Their
father butchers the tavern's meat (the name of the place means, loosely, mister
butcher). Vegetables come from village farmers. There were no menus; dishes just
arrive on your table: flaky burek pastries filled with puréed onions and
tomatoes; fresh greens; baked lamb; extraordinary cheesecake. The bill came to
1,500 leke per person, with gratuity, or about $12.50.

Admittedly, I develop city crushes easily, and I am a sucker for underdogs. But
Tirana is no underdog -- though most citizens I communicated with tried to
convince me otherwise. At every turn, new acquaintances attempted to usher me
out of the city, to the places considered Albania's highlights: the Adriatic
coast, the mountains. I refused. Only then would they share a favorite city
nook.

''Tirana has a lot of energy,'' explained Gent Mati, who owns an adventure
tourism company, Outdoor Albania, and with whom I'd hiked the previous summer in
the northern Albanian Alps. ''But it is a capital with a neighborhood feel.
Everyone has their own special spots.''

We contemplated those spots over cocktails at Radio Bar in the upscale Blloku
neighborhood. During Hoxha's regime ''the Block'' was reserved for government
elites and off-limits to average citizens. Today this tight grid of about a
dozen streets is crowded with bars and chic boutiques radiating a nouveau riche
vibe. Radio, where an urban hippie crowd lounges on 1960s furniture, is a
standout in this trendy district.

''Before, we were poor and now we have more shops, but the quality of life isn't
better,'' said Radio's owner, Enton Kaca, who believes that Tirana's citizens
are just starting to think in new ways. ''Here we want to serve a new generation
of Albanians.''

Later, Mr. Mati and I drove five miles out of town through a sprawling
hodgepodge of commercial and residential structures to the oasis that is Uka
Farm, to see that new generation in action. The winemaker Flori Uka, 30, runs
the family business, which promotes sustainable agriculture. The 4.5-acre farm
grows grapes, olives, cherry tomatoes, green beans, arugula, apples,
pomegranates, plums and kiwi.

The fruits of Mr. Uka's labor end up in glasses and on plates served in his
year-old, open-air, mountain-facing restaurant. Dishes of grilled zucchini,
peppers and potato tortas covered checkered tablecloths. We sipped a glass of
his Chimaera, a blend of three merlots, cabernet sauvignon and syrah. ''Find the
food fresh and cook it simple,'' Mr. Uka said as we touched glasses.

The next morning I took a taxi three miles northeast of the city center to ride
the Dajti Ekspres cable car. The 15-minute gondola flight soared above forests
to its terminus in Dajti Mountain National Park, an 8,154-acre expanse of green
rolling hills. Looking backward from the cable car, I wondered: Where was my
special Tirana spot?

I found it that night.

Hemingway Bar sits in a quiet neighborhood about a 10-minute walk from
Skanderbeg Square. Other Hemingway bars in Europe -- in Paris, Prague and on the
Croatian coast -- have pretentious reputations. Not this joint. Here, cool met
literary, jazz met Balkan, Tirana met Havana. Red, seductive lighting cast
shadows over photos of the Buena Vista Social Club. Pictures of Papa were
scattered between quotations in Albanian and English. There was a piano for
intimate jazz nights, and 140 rums lined shelves.

It was late when the crowd thinned out. I sat outside with the owner, Rodmir
Sukaj. ''Here in Tirana there's a spirit of creation, and doing something in a
real and good way,'' he said as we toasted the evening.

I remembered something the prime minister told me a few days before about how
visitors are often reluctant to come to Albania, because of ''perception and
stereotypes.'' But when they finally do decide to venture here, he'd said:
''they always want to come back. So it is always about the first touch. Once you
touch it you can't forget it.''

IF YOU GO

Where to Stay

The 170-room, 15-floor Tirana International (tiranainternational.com) rising
above Skanderbeg Square was completed in 1979 and refurbished in 2014. The
city's grande dame has a terrace bar, a spa and a nightclub. Rooms from 116
euros with breakfast. (Lodging is often charged in euros.)

A short walk from Boulevard and in a quiet neighborhood near government
buildings and embassies, City Hotel (cityhoteltirana.com), a 15-room boutique,
is basic but homey. Standard doubles start at 58 euros.

Where to Dine

Taverna e Kasap Beut (Rruga Perlat Rexhepi 12; 355-69-539-8609) is a traditional
tavern, with dishes that are based on fresh ingredients purchased from local
farms. A three-course lunch for two is about 3,000 leke (about $25).

At the family-run farm and vineyard Uka Farm (Laknas village of Tirana;
355-67-203-9909; facebook.com/ukafarm?fref=ts), grilled lamb, chicken, or pork
is paired with on-site vegetables. A meal for two with a bottle of wine runs
around 5,000 leke (about $40).

What to Do

A 15-minute ride by the Dajti Ekspres cable car to Dajti Mountain National Park
provides panoramic views of the city; 355-67-208-4471 or 355-68-492-2305;
dajtiekspres.com

A daylong tour of Tirana with Albanie Vacances (vacancesalbanie.com), which has
English-speaking guides, includes all historic sites and entrance to museums and
galleries and costs 50 euros.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/tirana-restaurants-bars.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Xhoel Leka prepares a mojito for a customer at the
Hemingway Bar
far left, brightly painted Radio Bar, known for its cocktails and good music
below, Komiteti features relics from Albania's past along with 25 types of
custom raki. Bottom, one of the government ministry buildings along Skanderbeg
Square designed by Fascist-era Italian architects in the 1920s.
Left from top: The Pyramid, originally a museum to commemorate the dictator
Enver Hoxha, then a conference center
Iris Ibro, a barista, at Komiteti
 Flori Uka (center), winemaker and restaurateur, at Uka Farm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
ELIE GARDNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); DICTATORSHIPS
(78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); POLITICS (74%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BASKETBALL (63%)

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (94%)

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drew Tye, Alexis Ruby Howe

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 176 words


Drew Feith Tye and Alexis Ruby Howe were married Saturday evening by Rabbi Roni
Handler at Bartram's Garden, a botanical garden and arboretum in Philadelphia.

The couple met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they graduated.

Ms. Tye (left), 28, works at Careers in Nonprofits, a staffing firm in
Washington, where she places candidates in jobs in the nonprofit sector. She is
a daughter of Deborah F. Tye of Rydal, Pa., and the late Cary S. Tye. Her father
was a principal of TriVest Realty, which was a commercial real estate firm in
Abington, Pa.

Ms. Ruby Howe, 30, is a director of business development in Washington for the
Education Advisory Board, a research and technology firm serving colleges.

She is the daughter of Vivienne Howe Schneider of Canberra, Australia, and Alan
R. Ruby of Ridgewood, N.J. Her father is a senior fellow at the graduate school
of education at the University of Pennsylvania. Her mother retired as a policy
adviser for state and federal governments in Australia.

Ms. Tye's previous marriage ended in divorce.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/drew-tye-alexis-ruby-howe.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLYN GOLER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY &
RELIGIOUS (88%); MARRIAGE (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (87%); REAL ESTATE (87%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (84%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT
SERVICES (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (72%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dining With an American Drawl

BYLINE: By ALEXANDER LOBRANO

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; SURFACING: PARIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 469 words


After cheeseburgers and lobster rolls, barbecue is what Parisians now crave,
part of their ongoing fascination with American comfort food. A spate of
American-run barbecue restaurants has opened here recently, and Parisians are
enthusiastically tucking into baby back ribs with a side of coleslaw. Diana
Darrah, a Dallas native, began the trend in the City of Light when she opened
Blues-Barb-B-Q in 2010. ''Barbecue was what I missed about Texas,'' said Ms.
Darrah, whose Parisian mother was a war bride. ''The French once only ate
American food as a goofy novelty, but once they've tasted really great barbecue,
they come back.''

Blues Barb-B-Q

Diana Darrah cooks her barbecue with American-made smokers and hickory and
mesquite wood. The delicious jalapeño cornbread served with the barbecue plates
is made from a family recipe, and desserts run to homemade cheesecake and pecan
pie.

1, rue Sedaine, 11th Arrondissement; (33) 01-48-06-79-53; bluesbarbq.fr

Floyd's Bar & Grill

Opened by a Bostonian, Jamie Young, in March 2014, this stylish speakeasy-like
restaurant is teaching the French that barbecue styles vary from state to state
with dishes like South Carolina-style barbecued pork belly with homemade pickles
and Kansas City-style ribs served with mac and cheese and coleslaw.

11, rue d'Enghien, 10th Arrondissement; (33) 01-44-79-05-52; floyds.fr

Frog Revolution

Founder of the popular Frog pubs chain in Paris, Paul Chandler's Bastille
district address offers microbrews on tap and cooks with a smoker from Oklahoma.
The Big Barbecue Plate for Two is a Texas-sized feed of barbecued pork ribs,
smoked chicken wings, pulled beef sliders, barbecued beans, sweet potato fries
and homemade coleslaw and smoked garlic toast.

9, rue de la Bastille, Fourth Arrondissement; (33) 01-42-74-34-41; frogpubs.com.

The Beast

Thomas Abramowicz, a barbecue-mad Frenchman who gave up a career in luxury
marketing in New York City to become a pit master, calls his two-ton, Texas-made
custom smoker ''the beast,'' and it's also the name of his popular restaurant,
which opened in October. Along with great barbecue, it has the best selection of
bourbons in Paris.

27, rue Meslay, Third Arrondissement; (33) 07-81-02-99-77,
facebook.com/thebeastparis

Flesh

The California chef Simon Lewis, after working at two of the best modern bistros
in Paris, Spring and Frenchie, puts a gastronomic spin on the barbecue register
at this table in ''SoPi'' (South Pigalle), Paris's equivalent of Williamsburg in
Brooklyn. The restaurant, opened in October, serves giant barbecued prawns in
addition to the usual meats, along with sides like corn on the cob with
Parmesan, chile, lime and coriander; and cauliflower in a chorizo vinaigrette.

25, rue de Douai, Ninth Arrondissement; (33) 01-42-81-21-93;
flesh-restaurant.com




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX CRETEY-SYSTERMANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MAP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (87%); PORK (78%); ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES (63%)

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sarah Sicher, Adam Salky

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 289 words


Dr. Sarah Dorothy Sicher and Adam Ross Salky are to be married Sunday by Rabbi
Karen Kriger Bogard at Congregation Anshai Emeth in Peoria, Ill.

Dr. Sicher, 34, will keep her name. She is a second-year resident in psychiatry
at the University of California, San Francisco-Fresno. She graduated from
Washington University in St. Louis and received a medical degree from Ben Gurion
University of the Negev-Medical School for International Health in Be'er Sheva,
Israel.

She is the daughter of Nancy S. Sicher and Dr. Steven E. Sicher of Peoria. The
bride's father, an ophthalmologist, is a founding partner in the Illinois Eye
Center there and the chairman of the section of ophthalmology at the University
of Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria. Her mother is an owner of
Knit-Four-Together, a yarn store in Dunlap, Ill.

Mr. Salky, 36, is a Los Angeles-based film director. His first feature film,
''Dare,'' had its premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in 2009. His second
film, ''I Smile Back,'' which stars Sarah Silverman, had its premiere at
Sundance in January. The film is to be released theatrically in October. He
graduated magna cum laude from Emory and received a Master of Fine Arts in film
from Columbia.

He is a son Alma Salky and Dr. Barry Salky of New York. The groom's mother is
the former owner of Dollhouse Antics, a store for dollhouses and miniature
accessories in New York. His father is a professor of surgery at the Mount Sinai
School of Medicine and an attending surgeon in the Mount Sinai Health System. He
is also the chief emeritus of the division of laparoscopic surgery at Mount
Sinai Hospital, also in New York.

The couple met in Los Angeles when a cousin of Dr. Sicher's set her up with Mr.
Salky.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/sarah-sicher-and-adam-salky.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW LINNELL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%);
ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); SURGERY &
TRANSPLANTATION (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); FILM SCHOOLS
(77%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (75%); PSYCHIATRY (74%); FILM FESTIVALS (73%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (68%); ARTS FESTIVALS &
EXHIBITIONS (68%); FILM DIRECTORS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%)

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); FRESNO, CA, USA
(92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAINT
LOUIS, MO, USA (72%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%);
MISSOURI, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Homes for Sale in New York and New Jersey

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS; Additional reporting by Marcelle Sussman Fischler,
Suzanne Hamlin and Jill P. Capuzzo.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ON THE MARKET; Pg.

LENGTH: 101 words


Click on the slide show to see this week's featured properties in the New York
region:

In Bayville, N.Y., a four-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath hilltop house, built in
2010, with a trellised veranda, a full basement, four patios, an outdoor
fireplace and a two-car attached garage on an 0.81-acre lot.

In Highlands, N.J., a 1904 carriage house converted into a three-bedroom
two-bath house with a sun porch, first- and second-floor decks, and a landscaped
yard with an outdoor shower and a hot tub.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/homes-for-sale-in-bayville-new-york
-and-highlands-new-jersey.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Homes for Sale in Brooklyn and Manhattan

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS; Additional reporting by Marcelle Sussman Fischler,
Suzanne Hamlin and Jill P. Capuzzo.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ON THE MARKET; Pg.

LENGTH: 110 words


Click on the slide show to see this week's featured properties in New York City:

In Lenox Hill, a three-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath with a fireplace and a
washer/dryer in a full-service doorman building.

On the Upper East Side, a duplex studio with a Murphy bed and a shared roof deck
in a walk-up.

In Park Slope, a one-bedroom one-bath unit with a living/dining room, an open
kitchen, three exposures and a balcony in a gated 31-unit, pet-friendly co-op
building with a common roof deck, storage and laundry facilities and a live-in
superintendent.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/realestate/homes-for-sale-in-lenox-hill-the-up
per-east-side-and-park-slope-brooklyn.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%)

COMPANY: FRIENDLY CO LTD (68%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No One to Rescue Me

BYLINE: By KERA YONKER.

Kera Yonker, who lives in North Carolina, is writing a book about breakups.

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1352 words


''It's sort of lounge-y in here,'' I remarked to my co-worker as I walked past
his office late one April afternoon. The room's fluorescent lights were off, and
jazz floated quietly from his computer.

He laughed.

''I feel like I should be having a cocktail,'' I said, not joking.

I had been at the company only a few months, but seven years in New York had
left me feeling in need of a change, and my request to transfer to our Boston
office had been recently approved.

The knowledge that I was leaving made me socially apathetic at work, but I was
slowly forming a friendship with this jazz-loving colleague. From my cubicle I
could hear him address others with kindness and humor, and I became curious
about this man and his disembodied voice.

I can't remember which of us suggested Friday drinks in his office, but it was
probably me. Cradling a bottle of rye, I arrived at his door promptly at 5 p.m.

''Wait!'' he said, reaching into a desk drawer. With a grin and a flourish, he
produced a can of macadamia nuts. We toasted and began our stories. I learned
that he was going through a divorce, and there had been a post-divorce ''we,''
but it was no longer.

''Dating's for the birds,'' he concluded glumly, looking into his mug of
whiskey.

In agreement, I shared my most recent romantic flop. We continued our chats over
lunch the following week and made plans to attend a concert that weekend.

On the heels of a second Friday happy hour together, I headed to an
alcohol-fueled dinner with friends. On my way home, I stopped at a bar and
drunkenly beckoned him via text to meet me. By the time he arrived I was on my
third whiskey.

I have little memory of the rest of the night. We met as planned for the concert
the following evening, and as we walked to the venue, he stopped short and
turned to me.

''Can I kiss you?'' he asked.

I nodded, surprised. In a gesture worthy of Hollywood, he took my face in his
hands and pulled me in for a magnificent kiss.

Then he filled me in on the previous night. Whiskey can make me weepy, so I was
unsurprised but still mortified to hear that I had devolved into an emotional
mess. And I was confused by his good-natured and forgiving humor.

''What are you doing here?'' I asked. ''You should be running far, far away from
me.''

''I know that's not how you are,'' he said, taking my hand.

A month into dating, I suffered a panic attack in his presence. He again took my
hand, got me outside and walked me through Prospect Park, keeping up a one-sided
conversation until my panic subsided.

Drunk or sober, my cracks were widening, but he did not flinch when they
appeared. I loved him for that. He had dubbed that first night together ''The
Night of the Dark Soul'' -- something we laughed about, but also a cautionary
tale.

It didn't always work. One morning I awoke with a hangover from a dinner party
we had attended. I had blacked out but recollected an argument. As I struggled
to piece the night together, he regarded me with a look of disappointment.

''I don't like being around you when get that way,'' he said, this time with an
honesty that was less welcome.

We chose not to dwell on these pockets of discord, in part because we had agreed
to stop dating after I was transferred and knew the relationship was temporary.

Still, we enjoyed four giddy months together. I appreciated the ways he looked
out for me -- sending me an email when he overheard I was having a tough phone
call at work, bringing me decaf coffees, and, once I began packing for Boston,
showing up at my door with boxes and Bubble Wrap. He handled my melancholy
episodes with aplomb and always had a comforting perspective to offer in the
form of Eastern philosophy, poetry or simple compassion.

A few weeks before my departure, I gathered my friends in my apartment for a
midsummer party. Although I had intended to maintain a moderate buzz, I guzzled
prosecco throughout the evening. When the last guest left, my quasi-boyfriend
announced that he was also leaving.

I was drunk, but had I been acting out? Argumentative? I dissolved into tears
and begged him to stay. If he would just stay, I could make amends in the
morning.

I woke the next day with his body curled around mine. I could only remember that
I had gone to sleep angry. I nudged him off me and snapped, ''Why are you
here?''

He reminded me that he had acquiesced to my pleas. ''Against my better
judgment,'' he added, his blue eyes icy and remote.

Didn't he remember our first night together? It was totally unfair, I whined,
for him to have a problem with my behavior.

''You knew what you were signing up for,'' I said. ''What does any of this
matter anyway? I'm moving.''

In response to that, he left.

As the hangover wore off, my peevishness gave way to embarrassment. I texted and
asked if I could meet him at his place. But once there I couldn't bring myself
to apologize, and I was relieved when he didn't bring it up. I suspected he had
decided to tolerate my behavior until I moved, just as I wished him to do.

I left New York with high hopes, but starting over in Boston proved harder than
I anticipated, and it became my nightly habit to pick up wine or grab drinks by
myself at a bar after working late.

These months were punctuated by frequent trips back to the New York office. He
and I stuck to our agreement not to date, but our attempt at friendship made me
miss the easy intimacy we had shared.

When my layoff came, it was almost a relief. I decided to store my belongings
and embark on a trip through South America that I had long dreamed of taking.
But two weeks before I left Boston, I succumbed to the terrifying reality of
leaving my career and spending my savings on travel. My decision, and the
inescapable loneliness of the year, bore their full weight down on me, and I
burst into tears.

First I drank a bottle and a half of rosé, surrounded by my partly packed
possessions. Then I attended a friend's dinner party, after a nip of whiskey on
the subway.

''I'm a mess,'' I confessed to my hostess when she answered the door. After
dinner I walked straight from the T station into my neighborhood bar, despite
the fact that drinking was doing nothing to decrease my agitation. I needed to
try something else.

Since my layoff, my ex-suitor (now tentative friend) had been checking in more
frequently. Sitting at the bar that night, with more rosé, I texted him: ''If I
asked you to come up this weekend, would you?''

He declined immediately, but we texted for the next few hours, with him
responding patiently to my sad ramblings. We planned to talk again in a couple
of days.

When I awoke two days later, it took me several hours to realize it was not the
next day, but the day after that. I recalled only bits of the previous 48 hours:
showing up for lunch with a friend after starting the morning with a couple of
beers, still soused from Monday night; a recollection of packing while sipping
whiskey.

My final memory was of downing four Manhattans in quick succession at a bar, my
third stop of the night, until I was cut off and put in a cab by the bar
manager.

Amid my own ready excuses, one thought managed to float its way to the top:
Nothing about the way I drank was normal.

Two hours later I sat in a community center and admitted that I was an
alcoholic.

As I left the meeting, my 24-hour sobriety chip in my shaky hand, I called my ex
as planned. I told him where I had spent the previous hour. He said he was proud
of me, and I admitted I was, too.

It has been two years since that first Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, and I have
remained sober. The absence of alcohol revealed that my ''dark soul'' was the
manifestation of a decades-long depression. Booze had masked its diagnosis while
also egging it on. Sobriety has also allowed me to see that even if my ex had
wanted to be the savior I was looking for, he couldn't have rescued me from
myself.

''I know that's not how you are,'' he had said after that first night.

But this is how I am, and I clutch that truth as tightly I did my first sobriety
chip.

EMAIL: modernlove@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/alcoholism-no-one-to-rescue-me-from-my
-drinking.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN REA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); COURTSHIP & DATING (86%); DRINKING PLACES
(78%); APPROVALS (70%); ALCOHOLS (66%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (65%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Meghan Meehan, David Schreiber

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 234 words


Meghan Grace Meehan, the daughter of Nancy L. Meehan and William S. Meehan of
Vernon, Conn., is to be married Sunday to David Nathaniel Schreiber, a son of
Betsy Cutler Schreiber and Dr. Carl S. Schreiber of Glen Head, N.Y. Rabbi Howard
Nacht is to officiate at the Waterview, an events space in Monroe, Conn.

The couple, both 28, met at Muhlenberg College, from which they graduated.

The bride is teaching ballet and jazz classes at Bronxville Ballet, a dance
school for children in Bronxville, N.Y. She received a Master of Fine Arts in
dance from Sarah Lawrence.

Her father retired as a marketing director from FairPoint Communications in
Manchester, N.H. Until 2003, her mother was a special-education teacher at the
Acton-Boxborough Regional High School in Acton, Mass.

The groom is an assistant district attorney in the Bronx district attorney's
office. He graduated magna cum laude from Albany Law School.

His mother, a speech language pathologist, is a clinical supervisor at the J.M.
Ladge Speech and Hearing Center at the C.W. Post Campus of Long Island
University in Brookville, N.Y. She is also a founder of Hope4Speech Associates
in Glen Head, which has developed an app for people with communication
disorders. His father is the chief of cardiology at Glen Cove Hospital and is
affiliated with North Nassau Cardiology Associates, a group practice in Glen
Cove, N.Y., and Garden City, N.Y.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/meghan-meehan-david-schreiber
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS &
ENGAGEMENTS (90%); DANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); LAW
SCHOOLS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS
(72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); SPEECH
THERAPY (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%)

COMPANY: FAIRPOINT COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: FRP (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC7375
INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT
RADIOTELEPHONE (57%)

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kate MacCluggage and Robert Eli: Staged Kisses, Then an Unscripted One

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 559 words


Kate MacCluggage and Robert Eli were married Saturday at the Prospect Park
Picnic House in Brooklyn. Erik Limpitlaw, a friend of the couple who became a
Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated.

The bride, 32, played the part of Patience Wright on ''TURN: Washington Spies,''
in January on the AMC network. She also played Portia in ''The Merchant of
Venice'' in 2010 at Theater for a New Audience at Pace University and on tour in
Chicago, Boston and Los Angeles.

She graduated from Wesleyan University and received a Master of Fine Arts in
acting from N.Y.U. She is the daughter of Linda H. MacCluggage and Reid
MacCluggage of Sarasota, Fla.

The groom, 37, played Miles Shastsbury, the newspaper editor in ''House of
Cards,'' on Netflix in 2014. Beginning on Sept. 29, he is to play Bob Martindale
in the Primary Stages production of ''Perfect Arrangement'' at the Off Broadway
theater the Duke.

He graduated from the Juilliard School. The groom, who is known by his stage
name, is the son of Judith E. Thompson and William J. Thompson of West Hartford,
Conn.

The couple met during the summer of 2006, when she played Olivia to his
Sebastian in Shakespeare's ''Twelfth Night'' at the Chautauqua Institution in
upstate New York. During each performance, his romantic soliloquy would be
preceded by a kiss from her character, after which she would reach into her
cleavage and hand him a pearl, before coyly running off.

But for the final show, she surprised him by playfully transferring the pearl
from her mouth to his during the kiss.

''She was all smiles in the wings,'' he said. ''I slowly turned to the audience
and took it out of my mouth. The audience went nuts. It was one of my best
moments in live theater.''

All that aside, in real life they were dating others.

''I had never been attracted to the blond, tall, handsome type before,'' she
said, adding, ''He was a little full of himself, too.'' They went their separate
ways after the show ended that summer, but would sometimes bump into each other
at auditions or parties.

They were reunited in 2012, when they ended up at the same callback for ''Bell,
Book and Candle,'' to be performed in Connecticut at the Long Wharf Theater and
Hartford Stage.

''I saw Rob in the waiting room,'' she said, ''and he immediately jumped up and
gave me a hug. It was endearing. He was sweetly nervous about the audition.''

Together, they ran through a scene that ended in a kiss.

''Usually in an audition it isn't expected you actually kiss, but Rob went for
it,'' she said.

He then turned to Darko Tresnjak, the director (who won a Tony last year for the
musical ''A Gentleman's Guide to Love and Murder''), and James Calleri, the
casting director, and said: ''It's O.K. I know her. We kissed in the last show
we did together.''

They got the parts, and more. ''The show became a refuge for me,'' Ms.
MacCluggage said, ''because I had just ended a long-term relationship.''

Three weeks later, the director told them to add more sizzle to their
performance. ''It's too brother-sister,'' she recalled Mr. Tresnjak as saying.
''You need to turn it on. You need to turn up the heat.''

As the temperature rose onstage, so it did offstage. As the show began its run,
they shared a kiss -- this time an unscripted one.

''Darko likes to take credit for bringing us together,'' she said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/kate-maccluggage-and-robert-e
li-staged-kisses-then-an-unscripted-one.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY T CHARLES ERICKSON PHOTOGRAPHY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%);
COURTSHIP & DATING (78%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (56%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA
(79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%);
FLORIDA, USA (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sandy Mosberg, Roger Parrino Sr.

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 217 words


Sandy Sugel Mosberg and Roger Lawrence Parrino Sr. were married Saturday at the
Hay-Adams, a hotel in Washington. Lt. Commander Michael A. Taylor, a Baptist
Navy chaplain, officiated.

Mrs. Parrino, 56, is a sales representative based in Rockville, Md., for the
United States subsidiary of Astellas Pharma, a Japanese pharmaceutical company.
She graduated from the University of Florida.

She is the daughter of Luise F. Horowitz of Tamarac, Fla., and the stepdaughter
of the late Dr. Arnold Horowitz. The bride's stepfather was a general
practitioner in the Bronx.

Mr. Parrino, 54, is a senior policy adviser on counterterrorism with the
Department of Homeland Security in Washington. He retired in 2003 from the New
York Police Department, for which he was the commanding officer of the Manhattan
North Homicide Squad. From 2007 to 2014, he was a civilian adviser to the Marine
Corps, during which he served four combat deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan.
He graduated from Regents College in Albany.

He is a son of Joseph V. Parrino of Fort Pierce, Fla., and the late May Walsh
Parrino. The groom's father is also retired from the New York Police Department,
having served as a second grade detective with the Queens homicide division.

The bride's first marriage ended in divorce, as did the groom's.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/sandy-mosberg-and-roger-parri
no-sr.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JETTA DISCO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); MARRIAGE
(78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STEPPARENTS (75%);
HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES
(69%); TERRORISM (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY
(54%); COUNTERTERRORISM (54%); POLICE FORCES (54%)

COMPANY: ASTELLAS PHARMA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
(57%)

TICKER: 4503 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2833
MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (54%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (52%); IRAQ (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Today's Times Square

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1066 words


The X-rated establishments of days past have given way to almost naked painted
women and Elmos seeking tips from tourists.

To the Editor: Re ''Shirtless Bodies in Pointless War'' (editorial, Aug. 22):

I attended the High School of Performing Arts from 1956 to 1960 when it was in
the Times Square area. I remember the seediness, the pornographic sex shops, the
X-rated movie houses and the pimps standing in doorways. I applaud city
officials for making the area safer and more tourist-friendly.

Recently I attended a Broadway show in the Times Square area and was taken aback
by the throngs milling around on the pedestrian plaza taking endless selfies
with half-naked women. While I am not a prude and don't begrudge New York its
tourist trade, it became an effort to get where I was going.

It seems the sexual incivility of the past has been replaced by a different
sexual distraction, albeit less offensive. Some might argue that sex is a part
of the Times Square mystique and that the women are legally within their rights
(which they are), but isn't it possible for Times Square to still be the
''crossroads of the world'' without such distractions?

BETTIJANE GARSON

White Plains

To the Editor: Thanks to the Times editorial board and Michael Kimmelman's
Critic's Notebook (''A Case for Nurturing Plazas in Times Square,'' Aug. 22) for
hard-hitting critiques of the frothing over bare breasts in Times Square. I've
been enjoying the free-for-all atmosphere of Times Square since college days,
more than 50 years ago. It's one of the demonstrations of the city's ability to
handle diversity of all sorts. Freedom of speech surely includes freedom of
dress.

PETER D'ERRICO

Leverett, Mass.

To the Editor: In your editorial, you mock the ''overreaction'' to the almost
nude women who ''pose for photos with tourists among the Elmos and Spider-Men.''

Unfortunately, the innocence you portray doesn't match the reality. The
supposedly harmless women bring ''handlers'' with them who take a cut of their
profits and muscle tourists who object to their aggressive tactics. In the brief
time I recently spent at a Times Square pedestrian plaza, I also saw a
Spider-Man manhandle passing teenage girls, and a dazed tourist break away from
a pack of costumed characters surrounding him, fuming that ''they made me pay
each of them $20.'' Is this really how we want visitors to our city to be
treated?

MIKE VOGEL

New York

To the Editor: Your editorial applauds the fact that Times Square no longer has
the ''pimps, prostitutes, muggers, drug dealers, bootleggers, pornographers or
even card-game hustlers'' of old. As a New Yorker of a certain age, I've become
nostalgic for that Times Square. Say what you will about its former denizens, at
least it had grit. It had character. Now it is just a sterile, character-less
Disney theme park.

I had no fear of the old Times Square. Now I avoid it at all costs. Give me the
three-card monte players over the Naked Cowboy and Elmo.

JACK HASSID

New York

To the Editor: Once again, as The Times has highlighted, Mayor Bill de Blasio
takes a wrong step for the wrong reason relating to Times Square street
performers and traffic patterns.

The pedestrian esplanades and lively street performers are precisely the kind of
activity that the regeneration of Times Square was intended to achieve. Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg's closing of a section of Broadway has served the tourists,
merchants, theaters, clubs and restaurants very well.

Changing this successful arrangement and doubling down by enforcing
unenforceable morals offenses will recreate a more furtive, dangerous and
unwelcome Times Square atmosphere. The mayor has much more important issues to
face, and he will assuredly lose any expensive First Amendment litigation.

HOWARD L. MARGULIS

New York

To the Editor: Re ''Going Topless in Times Sq.: A Legal View'' (front page, Aug.
21):

If Mayor Bill de Blasio thinks tearing up the public plaza of Times Square will
drive the costumed characters away, he should look across the country to
Hollywood Boulevard. There is no public square but there are dozens of
aggressive, pushy costumed characters on the sidewalk jamming things up so badly
that it has become nearly impossible to pass.

Hustlers exploiting tourists have been around a long time. Declare Times Square
a public park, enforce the no-panhandling rule, post clear signs discouraging
tourists from giving money, and the problem will dissipate naturally. Tearing up
one of the most wonderful improvements and turning Times Square back into a
traffic-clogged mess is not the answer.

DOUG JONES

New York

To The Editor: New York City needs more affordable housing. New York City needs
to resolve thorny issues of gun violence. New York City needs to reduce its
homeless population. New York City needs to continue its work to fix Rikers
Island. New York City has countless other real problems it must address.

Topless panhandlers in Times Square? Yes, grist for the tabloids and interesting
First Amendment questions to consider. But worthy of the time and attention of
the mayor, police department or the front page of The Times? Please!

JOHN M. BRICKMAN

Great Neck, N.Y.

To the Editor: Michael Kimmelman makes an excellent case for not only preserving
this plaza, but also making it work better. Advocates for sensible
transportation have long called for making all of 42nd Street into an auto-free
pedestrian plaza, river to river, outfitted with a modern light rail line. This
vastly enlarged plaza, abutting the Times Square plaza, would substantially
increase pedestrian space in the city's densest location.

As Mr. Kimmelman points out, congestion pricing would complement strategies that
call for increasing pedestrian space in the core of the city. Instead of
numerous ad hoc adventures, the city should prepare a ''comprehensive street use
plan'' for the Central Business District, as has been requested by a Midtown
community board. Manhattan streets are some of the most valuable real estate in
the United States, and the city falls short of using this asset productively.

We should give credit to Mayor John V. Lindsay for calling for the creation of
the Times Square and Herald Square plazas four decades ago. With proper
''nurturing,'' public open space can be a real asset.

GEORGE HAIKALIS

New York

The writer is a civil engineer and urban planner.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/topless-women-in-times-square.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (78%); TOURISM (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MOVIE RATINGS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); FILM (72%);
CITIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); SELFIES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

36 Hours in Istanbul, Asian Side

BYLINE: By SUSANNE FOWLER

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; 36 HOURS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1658 words


The lines to enter major sites on the European side of Istanbul, Turkey's
cultural capital, can stretch for hours. But just across the Bosporus lies the
less-harried Asian side, a greener, cleaner and often more conservative swath of
the city that offers its own multicultural mix of Ottoman palaces, artsy hotels,
tasty cuisine and hipster night life. Here, at the gateway to Anatolia, hilly
pine-forest trails in former fishing villages offer opportunities to burn off
the baklava, while shady tea gardens abound for those who prefer relaxing with a
water view. Wealthy Turks live in villas to the north, while miles to the south,
party-friendly Kadikoy is bursting with vegetable and fish markets and
bookstores, and is home to a street devoted to bars.

Friday

1. Green Mansion  | 2 p.m.

The governor of Egypt, Abbas Hilmi Pasha, got more than a title from his Ottoman
sultan; he also got permission to build an elegant summer home in 1907 in the
wooded Beykoz neighborhood. The Khedive Palace, or Hidiv Kasri in Turkish, is
now the centerpiece of a park with paved paths and restaurants and cafes set
amid rose gardens and pine-lined trails. The grounds are decorated with wacky
giant squirrel sculptures and the occasional kangaroo statue. There are Art
Nouveau influences in the palace's stained glass and ceramic tiles, and marble
pillars surround a fountain in the foyer. Along the broad veranda, families
savor their sour-cherry bread pudding (12.5 Turkish lira, or $4.43 at 2.82 lira
to the dollar) and Turkish coffee (5 lira).

2. Happy Hunting  | 4 p.m.

When does a palace have no formal bedrooms? When it's not intended for overnight
stays, as was the case with the Kucuksu Pavilion (5 lira). This eight-room stone
building was designed by the Ottoman-Armenian architect Sarkis Balyan in the
1850s as a hunting lodge for Sultan Abdulmecid and his buddies. Outside,
intricate carvings of pomegranates and geese add to the Baroque frills. The
interior is no less decorative with its curved double staircase and Bohemian
crystal chandeliers. Seen in the 1999 James Bond film ''The World Is Not
Enough,'' this jewel-box of a palace is near the river zone immortalized as the
Sweet Waters of Asia, and was a popular subject for European engravers in the
1800s. Even then people were fleeing to the Asian side for fresher air.

3. Spoon With a View | 7 p.m.

The man-made and natural light shows don't get much better than from the terrace
of Tapasuma, a restaurant on the grounds of the Sumahan on the Water hotel. As
the moonlight on the water intensifies, the sparkling lights on the First
Bosporus Bridge change from white or yellow to pink or blue and even turquoise.
The seasonal menu is international with a Turkish twist. Start with Circassian
chicken with walnuts or a skewer of sesame-coated beef with a Roquefort dip,
then move to sea bass stew or marinated fillet of beef. End with three Turkish
milk puddings: rosewater, berries and mastic. Or try the semolina halvah with
caramelized pears and vanilla ice cream. Sip your Sevilen Isabey cabernet-merlot
into the night as Turkish executives at the next table discuss their
investments. Dinner for two, about 350 lira, with wine.

Saturday

4. The Empire Spreads Back | 9 a.m.

It's not Topkapi, despite being nearly as lavishly decorated, but the
19th-century Beylerbeyi Palace is an impressive Imperial Ottoman edifice with
Baccarat crystal chandeliers, grand staircases, Yildiz porcelain, Hereke carpets
and an indoor marble fountain with carvings of frolicking dolphins. It was once
host to visiting European royalty, and its last official overnight guest is said
to have been Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Turkish Republic. The 20 lira
entrance fee includes a tour in English.

5. A Blend of Beliefs | 11 a.m.

The arts colony of Kuzguncuk was once a melting pot of cultures and boasts a
mosque and a synagogue, plus Greek Orthodox and Armenian churches, along with a
crop of cute cafes. Rows of colorful wooden townhouses with carved-gingerbread
balconies have made this zone a destination for new brides with photographers in
tow. Souvenirs by local designers line the shelves at Bir Kuzguncuk Dukkani,
like painted Popsicle-stick bookmarks by Ayse Durukan (20 lira) or small purses
of recycled materials from the Cop Madam cooperative (50 to 90 lira), which
employs, and empowers, Turkish housewives.

6. Midday Meze  | Noon

The Bosporus shore is lined with pricey places offering fresh fish dishes. For
more budget-friendly fare in Kuzguncuk, go a few blocks inland to Kosinitza for
small plates like fresh anchovies in spicy tomato compote or chunks of sea bream
in a vinegary mustard (about 60 lira for four small plates). An even more casual
meal can be had at the tiny Kuzguncuk Balikcisi,  where fish soup is 7 lira and
seasonal fish 15 to 35 lira.

7. Far Pavilions   | 2 p.m.

Grab a cab to Buyuk Camlica, a hilltop respite favored by conservatively dressed
Turks and Gulf Arab tourists and near where President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is
building a mosque destined to dominate the Asian-side skyline. Here at the
highest point in Istanbul, more than 850 feet above sea level, the view, which
shows nearly every twist in the Bosporus, has inspired writers like Lord Byron
and Lady Mary Wortley Montagu. Settle in for a slice of hazelnut cake (4.5 lira)
or a cup of thick black coffee (3 lira), served on an etched-brass tray inside a
renovated Ottoman coffeehouse surrounded by rosebushes.

8. Matinee Idyll | 4 p.m.

Another cab ride brings you farther south to the trendier Kadikoy and the tiny
Sureyya Opera House, where seats can be had for as little as 15, 25 or 35 lira.
Here, the Istanbul State Opera and Ballet performs European classics from the
likes of Verdi and Rossini on Saturday afternoons and has also presented Turkish
works like the two-act ''Hurrem Sultan'' ballet about Suleiman the Magnificent
and his scheming bride. The space also is host to concerts as part of the annual
Istanbul Music Festival.

9. Sip and Shop | 6 p.m.

Explore Anatolia's viniculture heritage by sampling a glass of white sultaniye
(15 lira) as its green-apple and citrus aroma competes with the jasmine in the
air at the vine-covered garden of Viktor Levi Sarap Evi. The wine bar, founded
on the European side in 1914, opened its Asian branch in 2002. Then peruse items
like olive oil soap (20 lira) and olive-wood earrings (35 lira) at the
Cicekisleri gift shop around the corner.

10. Reliable Repast | 8 p.m.

It's hard to find a better, or more intriguing, dinner than at the sidewalk
tables at any branch of Ciya, the popular outpost of what was nearly forgotten
Anatolian cuisine. At the one at Gunesli Bahce Sokak 38A, for example, go for
seasonal specialties like truffle kebab in the autumn, roast baby goat in the
spring or sour cherries and beef meatballs in summer. The preserved-walnut
dessert, softened husk and all, is served year-round. Dinner for two: 80 lira
without alcohol. The Ciya across the street at No. 43 serves alcohol.

11. Bar Hop  | 10 p.m.

Cheaper rents draw a student crowd to Kadikoy, and a student crowd tends to draw
a lively night life, as is the case around Kadife Street, known as Barlar Sokak,
or Bars Street. Reliables like Karga and Arka Oda are always a good bet, but the
old Greek house at No. 10 offers a chance to hit three spots in the same
building. The exposed brick walls, worn oak floors and subdued lighting draw a
crowd of 20- to 30-somethings to Trip to hoist pints of tap-drawn Bomonti (11
lira). Upstairs, Stereogun appeals to the younger set, while downstairs at Hera,
there's a retro feel with a fashionable older crowd swaying to an alternative
music soundtrack next to an ad for an ''I heart the '90s'' party. Night owls can
surround themselves with the throbbing beat at 360 East on the roof of the
DoubleTree Moda hotel (the 40 lira weekend cover charge after 11 p.m. includes
one drink).

Sunday

12. Shore Thing | Noon

The stretch of coast around the Moda neighborhood was once home to wealthy
shipping merchants, and the feel of the moneyed crowd still clings with its
private clubs and marina. Grab a humble seaside breakfast of simit
(sesame-coated bread roll) and tea before hopping a taxi or dolmus (minibus) to
Bagdat Caddesi, the Asian side's answer to the Champs-Élysées, with upscale
boutiques and sidewalk cafes. In neighboring Suadiye, admire the ornate wooden
exterior at Vakko, then head inside to check out the fine silk scarves (195 to
220 lira) and durable lambskin wallets (375 to 395 lira).

13. Feelin' Groovy  | 2 p.m.

Moda is home to one of Istanbul's quirkiest museums: The Baris Manco House
Museum (6 lira), a shrine to the beloved Turkish rock star  who lived there
until his death in 1999. Outside the Victorian-style structure is a
Graceland-like bronze gate bearing his likeness. The vegetable sculptures in the
yard relate to his hit love song, ''Domates, Biber, Patlican'' (''Tomatoes,
Peppers, Eggplant''). Inside is a staircase painted to resemble piano keys and
his collection of musical instruments, far-out suits and psychedelic neckties.

Lodging

Sumahan on the Water (Kuleli Caddesi 43, Cengelkoy; sumahan.com), a 24-room
low-rise hotel in a former Ottoman raki distillery, now with its own marble
hammam (45-minute scrub, 50 euros). A boat fetches guests on the European side
and speeds them across the Bosporus. A buffet breakfast is served along the
shore. Rooms from 295 euros in high season and 140 euros in December and January
(about $325 and $155).

The glass tower DoubleTree by Hilton -- Moda (Albay Sozdener Caddesi 31,
Kadikoy; doubletree3.hilton.com) offers spacious rooms, a spa and a rooftop
swimming pool with views of the Marmara Sea. Rooms start around $120.

''36 Hours,'' a television program inspired by The Times's 36 Hours column, airs
Mondays at 8 p.m. Eastern on Travel Channel. The next episode on Istanbul
dovetails with this column.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/travel/what-to-do-in-36-hours-in-istanbul.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: View of the Asian side of Istanbul from the ferry departing the
European side. (TR1)
Left and center, the pier and a street in the Moda neighborhood, once home to
wealthy shipping merchants and still retaining the feel of an upscale crowd.
Right, a plate of gozleme, a sort of Turkish quesadilla. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURE
JOLIET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR5) MAPS: IF YOU GO: 1 Hidiv Kasri, Cubuklu
Yolu 32, Beykoz
hidivkasri.com. 2 Kucuksu Pavilion, Goksu Mahallesi
millisaraylar.gov.tr. 3 Tapasuma, Kuleli Caddesi 43, Cengelkoy
tapasuma.com. 4 Beylerbeyi Palace, Abdullah Aga Caddesi
millisaraylar .gov.tr/portalmain-en /Palaces.aspx?SarayId=15. 5 Bir Kuzguncuk
Dukkani, Icadiye Caddesi 40/A
birkuzguncukdukkani.com. 6 Kosinitza, Bereketli Sokak No. 2/A, Kuzguncuk
kosinitzarest.com. 7 Buyuk Camlica, tesislerimiz .ibb.gov.tr/Camlica.aspx. 8
Sureyya Opera House, Gen. Asim Gunduz Caddesi (also known as Bahariye Caddesi)
29
90-216-346-1531. 9 Viktor Levi Sarap Evi, Damaci Sokak 4, Kadikoy
viktorlevimoda.com. 10 Ciya, Gunesli Bahce Sokak 38A, 90-216-330-3190. 11 Kadife
Street (Barlar Sokak) 10: Trip, Sterogun, Hera. 12 Vakko, Bagdat Caddesi No.
422, Suadiye
vakko.com. 13 Baris Manco House Museum, Yusuf Kamil Pasa Sokak 5
 barismanco.kadikoy.bel.tr. (TR5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); HOTELS &
MOTELS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS
(70%)

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (94%)

COUNTRY: TURKEY (96%); ARMENIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Speculators Rush In

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2182 words


More than 150 years ago, Manifest Destiny drove American pioneers westward. A
horde of speculators and moguls staked claim to everything before them as they
pressed onward to the Pacific, their mission being to ''overspread the continent
allotted by Providence for the free development of our yearly multiplying
millions,'' as the journalist John L. O'Sullivan wrote in 1845.

The last year has seen a form of reverse and truncated manifest destiny, as a
new horde of speculators (moguls, nightclub impresarios and their yearly
multiplying conspicuous consumers) drives and flies ever eastward from Manhattan
toward that beguiling jewel of Long Island, the Hamptons.

Where their predecessors came on horseback and covered wagons, this modern breed
travels by helicopter, black S.U.V., Land Rover and Porsche. As with its
antecedent, the migration has its impediments, in the form of local laws,
citizen groups and politicians fighting to protect ''the heart and soul of this
community,'' as Larry Cantwell, the East Hampton town supervisor, put it in an
interview this month.

But where those who headed west during the frontier days overcame their
obstacles with strong horses, big guns and sheer brawn, this new Hamptons breed
is seeking to do so with strong lawyers, big political and public relations guns
and sheer financial brawn.

There seem to be two driving factors behind this Hamptons version of manifest
destiny: money and the drive to make boatloads of it, and money, the compulsion
to spend boatloads of it accumulated, apparently, after so many years of
generous Wall Street bonuses and (at least until now) sizable stock gains.

And then there is that American will to leave one's mark on God's exquisite
canvas, even if it means inexorably changing it.

This push is a big part of why the Hamptons have been so particularly chaotic
this summer, as a gold-rush mentality has combined with a determined
expansionism to transform sleepy enclaves of the East End into redoubts of
McMansions or unrecognizable party zones.

Yes, the Hamptons have long been home to big money and willful players. And the
complaint that the place is becoming overrun has been lodged for a few years.
But throughout the eastern hamlets, most acutely in Montauk, there is an
overwhelming sense among longtime residents and visitors that this summer the
whole dynamic hit a long predicted inflection point.

It could be seen in July, when hundreds of citizens showed up at an East Hampton
town meeting to demand the local officials do more to rein in the nightly chaos
caused by the booming Montauk party scene.

It could be seen two weeks ago when the Federal Railroad Administration warned
the Long Island Rail Road about potentially dangerous crowding on its most
popular Hamptons-bound train.

And it can be seen weekly in the local newspapers, like The Southampton Press,
where the architect Preston T. Phillips recently wrote a column declaring the
area was suffering from an illness whose symptoms include: ''unrelenting scourge
of aircraft of every description, traffic congestion beyond anyone's concept of
a bucolic existence, and the general feeling between locals and second-home
owners alike that the long-held concepts of fairness, politesse, largess, and
noblesse oblige have given way to arrogance, personal gain at the expense of
others, one-upmanship and ostentation.''

Even David E. Rattray, who has seen it all as the third generation of his family
to edit The East Hampton Star, thinks this year has brought something different.

''Every summer you say, 'Oh my God, it's more crowded than it's ever been
before.' The difference this summer is it's taken on a real feeling that people
are just appalled,'' he said. ''The scale of the reaction is new, and I think it
reflects some really amorphous tipping point.''

In places like Sag Harbor Village, Southampton Village and East Hampton Village,
the aforementioned spirit is evidencing itself in the will to build ever-bigger
and more imposing buildings -- witness the new $45-million spec house in
Southampton called Twin Peaks -- which has led officials in all three places to
consider placing new size limits on residential construction.

After East Hampton Village went ahead and did so this summer, a couple of
residents, including the Giuliani administration planning director Joseph B.
Rose, filed suit to block them.

Mr. Rose said in an interview that he was ''completely supportive of regulations
that protect the village and stop oversize houses being developed on smaller
lots,'' but that the regulations were ''ill-conceived'' and would prove
counterproductive.

Yet most of the action stems from the unimpeded growth in the summer population,
which, The East Hampton Star reported, had increased 30 percent from 2000 to
2010 -- the last year for which Suffolk County has solid estimates -- to about
262,000.

And that was before the financial recovery kicked in: Hurricane Sandy sent
Jersey Shore goers to seek out undamaged beaches in Long Island and Airbnb
created hundreds of effective (and, in many cases, illegal) guest rooms. Another
data set, Long Island Rail Road figures, show ridership on its Montauk Line is
up about 10 percent since 2012, or by 66,000.

The swelling of the population is to this version of manifest destiny what gold
was to so many who were inspired by the first one: an opportunity to hit it big.
That has, in turn, caused more new businesses to open, many of them apparently
viewing potential code violations as a cost of doing business; more local mom
and pops to sell to outsiders for many millions of dollars, many of them to
financial industry titans teamed with big city club promoters, and ever more
visitors to pour in to enjoy the bacchanalian offerings of the new
establishments.

Any manifest-destiny-like movement has to start with a burning desire to head to
the place of conquest. Among those capitalizing on the urge is a new crop of
charter-plane and technology-enabled helicopter services like Gotham Air and
Blade. The air services allow customers to book 35-minute, one-way
Manhattan-to-East End flights (for $500 and up) on their smartphones.

This service has delighted those like the actor Jon Hamm and the model Anita
Hodosi. But it is driving to distraction the locals and second-home owners stuck
below the flight path, and whose airport-related noise complaints spiked to more
than 400 percent last summer as, the town reports, helicopter flights increased
nearly 50 percent. The town government responded this year by limiting when and
how often the flights could take off and land.

But the services are determined. A group called Friends of the East Hampton
Airport, whose membership includes aviation interests, quickly formed to file
lawsuits to stop the changes, succeeding in at least temporarily blocking the
most stringent of them.

To help make its case publicly, the group has enlisted the powerhouse political
firm SKDKnickerbocker, whose officials have factored in the presidential
campaigns of John Kerry and Barack Obama and the successful effort to redevelop
the Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn over community opposition there. They have
disputed the town's figures on takeoffs and landings and questioned the size of
the opposition.

Loren Riegelhaupt, a Manhattan-based SKDKnickerbocker executive who acts as a
Friends of the East Hampton Airport spokesman, said, ''We remain deeply
committed to working with the local communities to understand how we can be
better neighbors.''

Kathleen Cunningham, chairwoman of a neighborhood group calling itself the Quiet
Skies Coalition, said, ''They're definitely playing hardball.''

But none have felt the effects more than those who live in Montauk, the hamlet
at the trail's very end. The overwhelming success of new-style night-life spots
there like the Surf Lodge and the Sloppy Tuna -- both of which have big
investors as co-owners and have been hit with numerous town violations over the
years -- has enticed others to follow their lead.

In only the last 18 months, four major transactions have taken place.

The private equity mogul Marc Rowan has bought the bayside lobster takeout shack
Duryea's from the family that founded it some 80 years ago (price: $6.3
million).

The New York-based real estate developer Jon Krasner and a local partner, Beau
Campsey, have bought the Shagwong restaurant and bar owned by local favorite
Jimmy Hewitt for nearly 50 years ($2.6 million). They took over the lease for
the nearby space that housed O'Murphy's Pub for nearly 25 years, for an
undisclosed sum O'Murphy's could not afford (O'Murphy's found new digs a couple
of miles away).

The nightclub magnate Sean MacPherson bought a defunct hotel in the middle of
the residential area of Ditch Plains ($1.15 million).

The Australian restaurateur and club promoter James Willis and a partner, the
corporate lawyer Robert Hirsh, took over the harbor side restaurant the
Cross-Eyed Clam (which sold this year for $2.85 million).

The ambitions of these investors do not always stop at the limits of town
zoning. For instance, Mr. Rowan submitted conceptual plans for Duryea's this
year that would knock down the iconic shack and replace it with a
6,350-square-foot restaurant. The space is effectively zoned for a seafood store
and takeout counter. He also plans to destroy the Duryea family home across the
narrow street to make way for a large parking lot, which is literally a Joni
Mitchell song. The town has asked Mr. Rowan to reconsider his plans, and he says
he is doing so.

Mr. Rowan, who has a home in Southampton, said he had fallen in love with the
area's natural beauty on bike rides through Montauk and that he would work with
the town to retain Duryea's original spirit.

''I'm very sympathetic to what they're going through out there,'' he said. ''Any
community in the midst of change has to be concerned about change and managing
the change.''

Town officials contend that Mr. Willis and Mr. Hirsh did not seek their
permission this season when they created another new Montauk draw by renaming
the Cross-Eyed Clam (calling it Harbor),  exceeding its 68-seat capacity by well
over 200 people and introducing dancing and musical acts, including the rapper
Ja Rule, even though they did not have approval to operate as a nightclub.

The perceived mercenary sensibility of some of the newer establishments (which
is not shared by locally grown favorites like the Montauk Brewing Company) has
proved jarring even to some of the community's stalwart business leaders.

''My parents came here to make a living -- I was born here, raised here
K-through-high school, became part of the community, part of my church,
president of the Kiwanis,'' said Henry Uihlein, whose family has run a marina,
boat rental and motel for more than five decades. Now, he said, in many cases,
''you got people buying here to make a buck and to invest with no regard for
infrastructure or quality of life. All they see is, Montauk has money now.''

That sense, building for several years, finally boiled over after the July 4
holiday, when the throngs of rowdy clubgoers left a trash-strewn wake of beer
cans, red Solo cups and an abundance of post-weekend anecdotes about public
urination, (illegally) packed share houses and, as The New York Post reported in
July, public fornication.

That is what prompted several hundred incensed citizens, including firefighters,
fishermen, chamber of commerce members, year-rounders and second-home owners as
well, to descended upon the monthly meeting at the Montauk Firehouse, usually
attended by a few dozen at most, to beg the town to do something.

''In the 50 years I've been attending board meetings, I've never seen anything
like it,'' said Richard D. Kahn, a Montauk resident and board member of the
group Concerned Citizens of Montauk.

''We have to find positive ways to move forward and reclaim our Montauk,'' said
Diane Hausman, chairwoman of Montauk's advisory committee to the town board.
''We're not going to do that by catering to party animals coming in here to take
over and disrespect everything that we love so much.''

Mr. Cantwell, the town board and local police have responded by winning a
temporary injunction keeping Harbor from operating as a nightclub; stepping up
enforcement against illegal share houses, and bringing noise violations against
nightclubs including the Sloppy Tuna, whose name is a form of onomatopoeia.

''All of this stuff is not bad -- if you can afford to take a helicopter from
New York, God bless you,'' Mr. Cantwell said. ''Whether it's helicopter
companies or young people going over the top partying, don't tread on the
community, do it in a way that is not a nuisance to others, that's the
message.''

But manifest destiny is a powerful thing. Even after the judge's injunction,
Harbor continued to draw violations, officials said. And an owner of the Sloppy
Tuna has responded in another way, by filing a lawsuit calling the violations
unfair and charging local officials have ''exceeded the limits of government
authority.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/the-battle-for-the-soul-of-the-hampton
s.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, patrons outside of the Sloppy Tuna in Montauk, where local
authorities are trying to enforce noise ordinances. Above, several hundred
Montauk residents crowded a recent town meeting, asking officials to do
something about rowdy clubgoers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES
 DOUG KUNTZ) (ST10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROSS MACDONALD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (73%); POLITICS (73%); WRITERS
(71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Brides, the Crop Top Brings Its Own Challenges

BYLINE: By SHEILA MARIKAR

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 937 words


When Cammy Hébert began planning her May wedding to Nick Miller, she knew a
froufrougown would not do. Visions of Emilio Pucci danced in her head:
specifically, a photo she came across years ago, in which a model wore a tight
short-sleeved crop top and a long skirt reminiscent of a bunch of doilies.

''People are finally doing more and more skirts, but they're still doing them
with those bedazzled corsets, which is so not my look,'' said Ms. Hébert, 29, a
founder of the Los Angeles-based clothing line Show Me Your Mumu.

She conceived of her own two-piece wedding dress with the bridal designer
Watters: a ''princess fun skirt'' paired with a simple cropped tank top, ''sort
of reminiscent of Calvin Klein in the '90s, that cuts in so you can see my
shoulders,'' she said. And, crop tops being what they are, also showing her
midsection.

''I'm not in shape enough to be in a crop top in front of 300 people yet,'' Ms.
Hébert said. ''I'm on my way.''

Michelle Obama arms, take a back seat. The trend of midriff-exposing tops has
entered the bridal department, possibly adding a whole new element of angst for
those who dare to bare quite a bit more than most traditions dictate. (Though in
some traditions, like those of India, brides have worn midsection-revealing
saris and lenghas for centuries.)

With waist-cinchers out of the question for midriff-baring brides, working out
is all but a must. Ms. Hébert has increased her Lagree-style Pilates regimen to
three classes a week, which she takes at the Studio (MDR) in Marina del Rey,
Calif., under the tutelage of her future sister-in-law, Mary Miller. ''It's a
love-hate relationship right now,'' Ms. Miller said.

The method of Pilates that Ms. Miller teaches includes cardiovascular exercises,
which increases calorie burn. ''You're going to get that heart rate up, you're
going to start sweating,'' she said.

And, Ms. Hébert, said, ''It gets these weird little small stomach muscles that
you didn't even know you had.''

Spinning is also a favored calorie burner. Fiona Gibb, 41, took classes at
SoulCycle and Karen Lord Pilates Movement in TriBeCa in anticipation of her Aug.
8 wedding.

''I do a lot of oblique things, oblique presses on the bike,'' said Nicholas
Wagner, a SoulCycle instructor who regularly sees Ms. Gibb on a bike at 7 a.m.
''We do a lot of stabilizing exercises to keep your core engaged.''

But exercise alone does not ensure a flat stomach.

Ms. Hébert is cutting out one caloric vice a month in the run-up to her wedding
(gone already: pizza, chips and French fries). Ms. Gibb planned to exercise
restraint even after the vows, or at least until her photographer packed up.

''When you're actually wearing the crop top, it's not like you can get there and
stuff your face all night,'' she said. ''There are considerations to be made.''

One key to flaunting the crop top is simply being body-confident to begin with.
''I always love working out,'' said Rebecca Brown, 33, who ran and took boot
camp and Pilates classes in the months leading up to her wedding. ''I'd say I
paid a little more attention to my obliques but I didn't really do anything that
different.'' It was a continuation of her normal routine, she added.

Sheena Patel, 30, who is wearing a midriff-revealing lengha for her Oct. 24
wedding reception, said her routine involves situps and planks. A lot of planks.

''I didn't even realize there were so many things you can do with planks,'' she
said.

Why not zip into something buttressed with boning, have cake, and eat it, too?
Crop-top-preferring brides pass on that idea.

''Dresses are really boring,'' said Ms. Brown, who wore a secondhand tulle
skirt, a sequined Alice & Olivia crop top and a pair of personalized Air Jordan
sneakers for her May 23 wedding in Sonoma, Calif. ''My favorite type of outfit
is drop-crotch trousers and a crop top. This just felt like an extension of
that, as opposed to being stuffed up in a dress.''

Designers have caught on. Reem Acra paired a rib-grazing lace blouse with a
flowing skirt in its fall 2015 bridal collection, and Theia debuted a tube
top/crop top double threat at its spring 2016 show. For her wedding, Ms. Gibb
wore a silk crepe pencil skirt and bell-sleeve top from the New York-based label
Houghton.

''They make the pieces custom and I said, 'Don't make the crop top too short,
I'm not a 19-year-old model,' '' she said. ''For me, it was just a slight gap
between the pieces.''

Houghton has pushed the envelope with some of its other bohemian-punk designs,
including a cape that reveals the better part of the wearer's chest and an
asymmetrical skirt that, in the front, hits well above the knee. (Grooms looking
to make a statement, take note: They also offer drop-crotch dress pants.)

Crop tops, the Houghton designer Katharine Polk argued, can be chaste.

''It's not like you're walking down the aisle in a bikini,'' she said. ''Showing
a lot of cleavage with a sweetheart neckline could be way more offensive.''

Not everyone sees it that way. ''There were definitely family members that
thought it was way too casual, way too weird,'' Ms. Brown said. ''But my mom got
married in a suit, so she totally gets me.''

Yet these brides don't foresee their bare midsection being the thing they
remember most about their big day. The working out, the dieting and any sturm
und drang about showing their waistline sometimes gets sidelined by other
wedding-day must-haves, contradictory as they may seem.

''I want a queso fountain at my wedding,'' Ms. Hébert said.

Read more: Two-Piece Wedding Dresses Make Their Statement

Before Coming Together, Separates




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/defying-tradition-and-working
-out-to-wear-bridal-crop-tops.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Cammy Hébert at her bridal fitting in Los Angeles. Above,
Ms. Hébert, in preparation for her crop-top wedding gown, has been doing
workouts that focus on her abdominal muscles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); WEDDING INDUSTRY (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS
(78%); HIGH SOCIETY (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%);
FASHION DESIGN (70%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charles Compton, John Koss

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 204 words


Charles Hutchens Compton and John Bade Koss were married Friday at the Union
Club, a private club in Boston. Maura Healey, the Massachusetts attorney
general, received permission from the state to officiate.

Mr. Compton (left), 36, is a finance project leader in Boston for the Boston
Consulting Group. He graduated from Wake Forest and received an M.B.A. from
Vanderbilt. He also received a master's degree in supply chain management from
Penn State.

He is a son of Rebecca Hutchens Compton and James E. Compton of Greensboro, N.C.
His father works in Greensboro as a first vice president for investments at
Davenport & Company, an investment firm based in Richmond, Va.

Mr. Koss, 35, is a director in the Boston office of Counsel on Call, a Nashville
legal services firm. He heads the firm's client and attorney relations teams for
the Northeast. He graduated from Northwestern, from which he also received a
master's degree in journalism. He received a law degree from Boston University.

He is a son of Dr. Mary P. Koss and Dr. Paul G. Koss of Tucson. His mother is a
professor of family and community medicine at the University of Arizona. His
father practices internal medicine with Northwest Allied Physicians in Tucson.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/charles-compton-john-koss.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA NEIGHBORS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); FAMILY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%);
LEGAL SERVICES (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%);
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); FAMILY
PRACTICE (65%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (64%)

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (58%); DAVENPORT & CO LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511
CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (90%);
NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (54%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%);
VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Proves Golden for Met

BYLINE: By VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words


The talk of Wall Street over the last week may have been Shanghai's plunging
stock market, but many blocks farther uptown, where commuter traffic gives way
to verdant sidewalks, a different set of numbers related to China was making
news. As it entered its final week, the Metropolitan Museum of Art's spring
Costume Institute show, ''China: Through the Looking Glass,'' was attaining
blockbuster status.

As of last Friday morning, 735,000 people had attended the show, with a week to
go before its close on Sept. 7, including a final Friday and Saturday with
viewing hours extended until midnight. That has already made it the most-visited
Costume Institute show in the museum's history, displacing ''Alexander McQueen:
Savage Beauty,'' which pulled in 661,509 attendees, as well as elevating it to
No. 7 -- and climbing -- on the museum's top-10 most popular list, on a par with
other 700,000-plus-visitor shows such as the ''Mona Lisa'' (1963), ''Origins of
Impressionism'' (1995) and ''Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art'' (2010).

Andrew Bolton, curator at the Costume Institute and the man behind the show,
said there have been more positive responses left in the visitor's comment box
than ever before. (''Usually people use it as an opportunity to vent
displeasure,'' he said. ''Often at the lighting, or the signage.'')

By any objective measure, this will be the most successful fashion show the Met
has ever had. The question is: Why?

''Honestly, it totally surprised me,'' Mr. Bolton said. ''I was prepared for it
to be polarizing. We were predicting around 500,000 visitors. I never expected
this level of response. ''

''No one expected it would surpass McQueen,'' said Maxwell K. Hearn, the Douglas
Dillon chairman of the department of Asian art, and Mr. Bolton's collaborator on
the exhibition, which is in the Asian art galleries on the second floor, some
Egyptian galleries on the first floor and the Anna Wintour Costume Center on
ground level.

I didn't expect it, either. Not because I didn't like the show (it's visually
engrossing in its mix of luxury, whimsy and point) but because it doesn't have
the single iconic hook that can transform a purportedly high culture meditation
into an extended pop culture moment.

After all, it isn't, as Mr. Bolton said, immediately obvious from the name what
the show is about. (Answer: the way a received fantasy version of China engages
the imaginations of Western designers.) And the subject itself was ripe for
criticism from those who thought the approach played to a now-discredited
stereotype of the East. You can't attribute it to the sheer size of the
exhibition, the largest ever, or it's length, because size does not equate to
allure.

There wasn't the sort of human gossip element that helped drive interest in the
McQueen show, held a year after the designer's suicide and days after Kate
Middleton married Prince William in a dress by Sarah Burton for Alexander
McQueen.

There was, to be fair, lots of striking use of mixed media, which made it seem
both very contemporary as well as historic. And it included film -- Wong
Kar-wai, who wrote and directed ''In the Mood for Love,'' was the exhibit's art
director, and clips from movies like ''The Last Emperor'' and ''The World of
Suzie Wong'' abound -- always a popular medium.

But Mr. Wong is an independent director as opposed to a household name, and when
Baz Luhrmann, a much more recognizable Hollywood figure, was the creative
consultant on an earlier Costume Institute show, 2012's ''Schiaparelli and
Prada: Impossible Conversations,'' it wasn't nearly the same hot ticket.

When I first saw the show in May, I was struck by the facile nature of the
fashion when juxtaposed against the antiquities. No matter the clothes' beauty
-- I remember the runway impact of Tom Ford's pagoda collection for Yves Saint
Laurent and being amazed by the broken blue and white china shards of porcelain
on an Alexander McQueen bodice -- they pale when compared with the source of the
inspiration, in part because the latter has a creative integrity the former only
borrows. Often too literally.

It's a good thing for the Asian art, because it makes you look twice at what
otherwise may have been background pottery, for example, but not necessarily the
clothes. It's no accident my favorite room is the ''small Buddha room,'' which
features an enormous gold dress by Guo Pei, the Chinese designer who made
Rihanna's yellow egg-yolk cape for the opening gala, surrounded by multiple
earthen Buddhas. The connection being one of silhouette and shade as opposed to
anything overt.

This probably has more to do with my own discomfort with what the exhibit
revealed about the superficiality of the fashion imagination rather than the
exhibition itself (indeed, it's part of the point of the show); as Holland
Cotter wrote in his review, ''the difference between the two disciplines is, too
often, made glaring.''

It turns out reviews have nothing on word of mouth as an audience-driver. ''I
call it the 'Harry Potter' effect,'' Mr. Bolton said.

And the word ''China'' was magical. Mr. Hearn said, ''Chinese visitors often
want to see how China is presented in Western museums.'' Forty percent of the
show's visitors have been international, and since June, 14 percent of total
international visitors have been Chinese, the Met's largest single group of
overseas visitors. China was also, until recently, the one of the most lucrative
markets for Western fashion designers.

Indeed, when the cynic in me first heard the exhibition's title, I wondered if
it was a calculated move to capture some of that gold dust. When pressed, Mr.
Bolton claimed ''we never think about the numbers,'' though he did say, ''I want
to do exhibits that are relevant and resonate in contemporary culture.'' It's a
slightly specious distinction (is making a listicle resonating with the culture
or catering to click bait? Is there a difference?), but when it comes to the
latter, there's no question that China has been the buzz of many conversations,
in every sector from Hollywood to finance, travel to e-commerce.

In any case, the museum quickly learned that its original expectations were
going to be surpassed, and in late June, Thomas P. Campbell, the director and
chief executive of the Met, decided to extend the show another three weeks. It
was only the second time a Costume Institute show had been extended (McQueen set
that precedent).

''We are like a fungal infection,'' Mr. Bolton said. ''We start out small, and
take over the whole museum.''

This kind of takeover has created another problem for its creator: follow-up.

Mr. Bolton acknowledged the challenge, noting that, after McQueen, in order to
better manage expectations, he and Harold Koda curated two much ''quieter, more
poetic'' shows: one based on a conversation between two women (Schiaparelli and
Prada) and one that took a forensic approach to the work of Charles James.

That said, however, Mr. Bolton has an ambitious wish list. He'd like to do a
conversation between Edith Wharton and Henry James inspired by two portraits in
the American galleries that would combine an examination of the American men's
wear tradition with furniture and sound. He would really like to work with the
Egyptian galleries.

The museum's biggest show, after all, was 1979's ''Treasures of Tutankhamun,''
which attracted over a million people. You do the math.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/nyc-museum-met-exhibition-china-and-fa
shion-proves-golden.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A dress by Guo Pei at the ''China: Through the Looking Glass''
exhibit. (ST1)
A visitor photographs a Dior dress by John Galliano at the Met exhibition (ST8)
 Visitors gathered to watch film clips in a room lined with clothing displays.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CITY LIFE (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%);
COMMUTING (73%); RANKINGS (73%); FASHION SHOWS (63%); FASHION & APPAREL (63%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%)

STATE: EAST CHINA (73%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Megan Calhoun, Max Broude

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 172 words


Megan Janine Calhoun and Max Rosenblum Broude were married Saturday evening at
the Millennium Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles. The officiant was Sylvia R.
Broude, the groom's sister, who became a minister with American Marriage
Ministries for the event. The bride's brother, Jay S. Calhoun, led the ceremony,
including Jewish prayers, the exchange of vows and the breaking of the glass.

The bride, 27, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a senior
consultant at the Camden Group, a health care consulting firm in El Segundo,
Calif. She graduated cum laude from Northwestern and received two master's
degrees from the University of Southern California, one in social work and the
other in gerontology. She is the daughter of Linda J. Calhoun and Zan F. Calhoun
of Rolling Hills, Calif.

The groom, 30, works in Beverly Hills, Calif., as the manager of comedy
development at the Hurwitz Company, a television production company. He
graduated from Yale, and is the son of Judy A. Rosenblum and John S. Broude of
Fort Worth.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/megan-calhoun-max-broude.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); CONSULTING
SERVICES (69%); GERONTOLOGY (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); TELEVISION
PROGRAMMING (51%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%)

COMPANY: HURWITZ CO INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tanya Brammer, Aaron Perlmutter

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 234 words


Tanya Jazmin Brammer, the daughter of Maryann V. Nacianceno of Mission, Tex.,
and Artemio C. Brammer of McAllen, Tex., was married Saturday evening to Aaron
Michael Perlmutter, a son of Sandra L. Perlmutter and Dr. Dan M. Perlmutter of
Corona del Mar, Calif. Rabbi Richard Steinberg officiated at Terranea Resort in
Palos Verdes, Calif.

Mrs. Perlmutter, 28, is a production assistant for handbags and other items in
the Los Angeles design studio of Bebe, the women's clothing brand and retail
chain that has its headquarters in Brisbane, Calif. She graduated from Concordia
University in Irvine, Calif.

Her father is a letter carrier for the United States Postal Service in McAllen.
He is also a retired Air Force staff sergeant who was last stationed at Cannon
Air Force Base in Clovis, N.M. Her mother is a material planner, assisting in
the acquisition of parts and services for maintenance, in the aerospace division
of General Electric, also in McAllen. The bride is the stepdaughter of Adela
Brammer and of Felipe Nacianceno.

Mr. Perlmutter, 38, is a general partner in and the head of corporate finance
for Levine Leichtman Capital Partners, an investment management firm in Beverly
Hills, Calif. He graduated from Duke and received an M.B.A. from Northwestern.

His father, a retired dentist, is the founder and chairman of DMP Properties, a
real estate investment firm in Newport Beach, Calif.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/tanya-brammer-aaron-perlmutte
r.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FORCES (90%); REAL ESTATE (85%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%);
MILITARY BASES (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (71%);
GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); RETAILERS (70%); US AIR
FORCE (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (66%); CLOTHING LABELS
(55%); POSTAL SERVICE (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

CITY: MCALLEN, TX, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY
AREA, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hung by a Thread

BYLINE: By JUDITH NEWMAN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; CULTURAL STUDIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words


Every new technology is amazing, and every new technology brings its own
horrors. For example, there was no such thing as waking up at 30,000 feet on the
shoulder of a stranger who is covered in your drool until we invented commercial
air flight (and Ambien).

And so it is with one small email ''feature'' that we cannot do without, yet has
cost almost everyone who has ever texted or emailed a moment of heart-stopping
panic. I'm speaking of auto-fill.

It is often confused with auto-correct. Here's the difference: Auto-fill fills
in names and information based on just a few keystrokes; auto-correct does, too,
but it also corrects (and predicts) writing in the body of a note.

For example, if I want to write to my editor Didi Gluck, I type 'Didi'' in an
email and auto-fill gives me the rest; If I am writing her name in a text to
someone, well, other things may happen. ''Did you know 'Didi' auto-corrects to
'dildo'? Because I do,'' Ms. Gluck told me, cheerfully.

In some ways auto-fill may be the more problematic function, leading to not just
semantic misunderstandings but to entire passels of information being dispatched
to the wrong people. Secrets are disclosed, petty true feelings are revealed,
words (and, worse, photos) of longing and lust end up in the email box of your
boss instead of your lover. And no one is immune.

Several months ago Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York complained in an email to a
few staff members that taking one of those I'm-a-man-of-the-people subway rides
to an event had made him late. The mayor mistakenly included on this grumpy
email thread Michael Powell, a reporter for The New York Times who for years
covered city hall.

The result? A perhaps unwelcome article about the mayor's chronic lateness. ''I
almost deleted his email because the sender only identified himself as 'B,' ''
Mr. Powell said. ''That struck me as suspicious, like perhaps it was one of
those Nigerian or Croatian bankers with a grand idea, if only I'd send my bank
account number.''

Slips like these remind us that Sigourney Weaver -- No, wait, I mean Sigmund
Freud -- is alive and well and living in our keyboards. Just consider how
frequently we send emails to precisely the person who should never ever receive
them. It's sending your estimated yearly tax income to an old frenemy, who has a
similar name to your accountant; it's getting out the word to friends that you
need a new job and including your boss on that thread.

For Britt Kazmac, a New York City tutor, it was the all-too-common erotic
message debacle. ''I thought I was sexting my husband,'' she said of her now
ex-husband, ''and he was playing coy by responding with texts like, 'Why are you
sending these to me?' Then I looked more closely, and realize I had been sexting
my daughter's Charismatic Christian babysitter.''

Ms. Kazmac believes she has a gift for this type of spectacular misfire. ''After
a bad third date I wrote to my best friend, Donna: 'What a waste of a bikini
wax,' '' she said, adding to the update, ''Worst sex ever.' It would have been
nice if her best friend had received it; instead it went to the only other Donna
in her address book: her graduate-school professor.

Or take this cautionary tale from David Hirshey, an editor at HarperCollins. Mr.
Hirshey had paid seven figures for a celebrity memoir, and was getting constant
interference from the celebrity's manager. In a moment of desperation and
frustration he sent out an email to his colleagues with the heading A Few Wise
Words from <X's> Brain-Dead Manager. One of his colleagues and the manager
shared the same unusual last name, and guess which one ended up on the email?

''Two minutes after I sent this, my phone rang and I heard the person on the
other end say, 'Please hold for <X's> brain-dead manager,' '' Mr. Hirshey said.
''Needless to say, this woman was not amused and made the rest of the publishing
process a living hell for me.''

Even if we become more cautious in our day-to-day emailing, we sometimes forget
how auto-fill works in programs we use less regularly. We're not quite paying
attention to the rules, as Laurie Lewis, a real estate broker with the Corcoran
Group, found out recently when she joined LinkedIn.

''LinkedIn 'asks permission' to access your address book,'' Ms. Lewis said. ''I
said yes. And then, unbeknown to me, it automatically selects everyone.'' She
ended up sending a request to everyone she had ever known, ''including and
especially people that I would literally cross a street to avoid.''

''LinkedIn auto-filled my worst mistakes,'' Ms. Lewis said, ''and reconnected me
with all of them.''

There is a flip side to auto-fill, when we are not the perpetrators of a gaffe
but the unwitting participants, caught in email chains we have absolutely no
business being in.

''This happens a lot if you have a really common name like Ann,'' said the
writer Ann Leary, who has borne gleeful and illegitimate witness to various
high-stakes real estate deals and publishing negotiations. Recently Ms. Leary
found herself in the family reunion and potluck planning roundelay of a famous
actress she barely knew. (This happens occasionally; Ann's husband is the
comedian and actor Denis Leary.)

A beauty known for playing chief executive officers, presidents and other
powerful women, the actress turned out to be something of a General Patton in
real life, too. ''Aren't potlucks supposed to be casual, bring-what-you-want
affairs?'' Ms. Leary asked. ''This woman was telling everyone what to bring in
the most minute detail. Like: 'You bring the feta and red bell pepper pasta.
I'll bring loose sea salt. Tell Peter to bring the pepper grinder. Will we have
enough candles? Who will bring the matches?'

''Not knowing who anyone was, at first I responded, 'Hey, sounds yummy, but
seriously, I don't think I belong in this email group.' But there were so many
emails back and forth that they didn't notice or acknowledge me.'' Finally, Ms.
Leary gave up and started chiming in with possible contributions: ''I'll bring
my famous banana bread!''

''After three days the actress realized what had happened and was like, 'Ann?'
'' Ms. Leary said.

At least Ms. Leary ended up on an endless email chain that comprised two of my
favorite things: celebrity and food. I share the same name and very similar
email with a woman whose life is a never-ending series of excited! emails! from
her personal shopper, Phi Mu Alpha sisters and knitting club. That was fine.

Then I started receiving emails from friends who had irrefutable proof that
President Obama was born in Kenya, learning socialism at the dusty feet of his
tribal overlords. One day I couldn't take it anymore, and hit ''Reply All'' with
my thoughts. The liberal pantywaist was removed from the thread.

So what are people to do when they have made a huge honking auto-fill error?
First, take heart: If you are using some email programs, like Gmail, you can
take back your email within the first 30 seconds of sending, according to a
Google spokeswoman. To enable this feature, follow the directions for the ''Undo
Send'' lab.

What if you recognize the error of your ways after, say, 31 seconds? I have had
those moments of slow-mo horror, where I simultaneously realize my mistake,
smash my keyboard and try to concoct the most plausible lie possible, while
hyperventilating at my desk.

''When email gets you into trouble, don't use email to try to get yourself out
of trouble,'' said Will Schwalbe, the Internet etiquette expert and author, with
David Shipley, of ''Send: Why People Email So Badly and How to Do It Better.''
''You can start the apology on email, but you need to continue it with a call, a
letter, flowers, wine, whatever it takes. The bigger the faux pas, the more
dramatic the gesture. Email apologies (even for email errors) are like email
thank yous: great for speed but ultimately not very impressive.''

Yet there can be an upside to the inadvertent blurt because, for all the
embarrassments, there are those moments of inadvertent connection; you may well
end up stumbling over not just an old enemy, but an old friend.

One of my closest buddies and I had an enormous fight several years ago. I
believed I was the wronged party, but in fact I wasn't. Yet I was too proud, and
too hurt, to make amends. A few weeks ago, in sending out a group email for a
get-together, I mistakenly included her address. She wrote back, saying that
although she knew she was not supposed to be on this chain, she was glad I
messed up, because she missed me.

After five years' absence, we're seeing each other next week. I kind of love my
auto-fill.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/the-perils-of-email-auto-fill.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) (ST2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXT MESSAGING (71%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (53%); SIGOURNEY WEAVER (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nicola Albano, Dominic Rachiele

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 210 words


Nicola Odessa Albano and Dr. Dominic Peter Rachiele were married Saturday at the
Church of St. Rita in Staten Island. Cardinal Orlando Beltran Quevedo, the Roman
Catholic archbishop of Cotabato, the Philippines, and an uncle of the bride,
performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Rachiele, 35, is a registered nurse for St. Luke's University Hospital
Network in Lehigh Valley, Pa. She has two bachelor's degrees, one in nursing
from Drexel University, and another in medical technology from the University of
Santo Tomas in Manila. Her father, Mario V. Albano of Todt Hill, Staten Island,
retired as an account officer for TIS Insurance Services in Knoxville, Tenn. Her
mother, Frances A. Albano of Los Angeles, is a nurse working for American
Caregiver at a senior living home there.

Dr. Rachiele, 44, is an oral and maxillofacial surgeon in Bethlehem, Pa. He
graduated from Bucknell and received a doctor of dental medicine degree from
Temple. The groom was a widower. He is the son of Nancy L. Rachiele and Thomas
J. Rachiele of Bethlehem. His mother, who is retired, worked in Morristown,
N.J., as a sales representative for Jack and Jill Ice Cream. His father owns a
barbershop in Bethlehem.

Ms. Albano and Dr. Rachiele were introduced in 2014 through CatholicMatch.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/fashion/weddings/nicola-albano-dominic-rachiel
e.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEY G'S MEMORIES VIDEO & PHOTO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS
(90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); HEALTH CARE (71%);
HOSPITALS (71%); DENTISTRY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL UNIVERSITY (57%)

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (57%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (54%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (74%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); PHILIPPINES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Remembering Carl Apfel

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKINSON

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; IN MEMORIAM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 712 words


There is a moment in the film ''Iris'' -- the recent documentary made by Albert
Maysles -- when Iris and Carl Apfel are interviewed together in their New York
apartment. ''There was something about her that just got into me; it's always
there,'' says Carl of his wife of more than six decades. Iris cuts in, laughing:
''And I figured he was cool, and he was cuddly, and he cooked Chinese, so I
couldn't do any better.''

Carl Apfel passed away on Aug. 1, at the age of 100 -- only a few days away from
his 101st birthday. Apfel was, as Iris put it to T, ''a very generous man, and a
very funny man. He had a great, dry sense of humor and he was very kind to
everybody.''

''He was one of the most genteel men I've ever met,'' says the jewelry designer
Alexis Bittar, a close friend of the couple, who called Carl a ''surrogate
parent.'' ''I've never met a sweeter, more loving couple in my life than Carl
and Iris. I was so eager to spend time with them to learn how they navigated
their relationship.'' It was a sentiment echoed by the designer Duro Olowu,
another close friend. ''Carl was a wonderful man for many reasons: charming,
caring and funny,'' Olowu said in an e-mail. ''A real gentleman with an
inspiring and creative mind as well as exquisite taste and an impressive c.v.
But most of all his dedication to Iris is an example to us all of true and
unconditional love and mutual respect.''

The Apfels met in 1947, and married the following year. They began Old World
Weavers together in the 1950s: a small but prestigious company that sourced and
produced textiles from all over the world. As a result, Iris and Carl traveled
to far-flung places together -- to Turkey, Morocco, Lebanon -- Carl always with
a camera in hand. ''Carl and I, from the time we married, we did everything
together,'' Iris says. ''We worked together, we traveled together, we lived
together -- until just recently, I never went anywhere without him.''

Old World Weavers took off, and soon they had provided fabrics for the State
Department, the White House and the Metropolitan Museum of Art; they worked with
everyone from Greta Garbo to Jackie Kennedy. In 1992, Old World Weavers was
acquired by Stark Carpet -- but the Apfels continued to operate within the
larger company. In 2005, Iris became the subject of ''Rara Avis,'' an exhibition
at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute that celebrated her
eccentric style. It was a moment that changed her life, catapulting her into the
public eye and turning her, as she puts it now, into a ''geriatric startlet.''
Press requests and invitations poured in, and soon, Iris had collaborated with
brands such as MAC Cosmetics and the Home Shopping Network. Carl was enormously
proud. ''As friends have pointed out, some husbands would have been jealous, or
envious, or annoyed,'' Iris says. ''But he just loved it, he wallowed in it.''

Since then, Iris has become known as an international style icon -- and a symbol
for individuality -- but among friends, Carl was also known for his flair. ''He
was sharp as a tack, and he always looked like a dude,'' says Iris. He wore
round, plastic-framed glasses and, when they ran Old World Weavers, often had
patterned upholsteries turned into pants. ''Somebody would say to him, 'Oh, what
beautiful trousers, where did you get those?''' Iris remembers. ''And he would
say, 'I just shot my couch.'''

''He knows how to have fun with life,'' says Bittar. ''He understands the
seriousness of everything, but he had come to the conclusion that it's better to
be lighthearted in your perspective of life than get heavy.''

On one hand, Carl also wore a large, gold Egyptian ring inscribed with the
phrase ''Where Is the House of Thy Father?'' He never went without it --
primarily because he couldn't get it off. Iris purchased the ring for him on an
antiquing jag in Dublin in the 1950s (a veteran bargainer, she convinced an
antiquarian to sell it off his own finger, even though it was not for sale); but
shortly after putting it on, Carl found he couldn't remove it. So he wore the
ring for decades, enduring changes of season and surgeries. Two days before he
died, the ring finally fell off.


This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/26/t-magazine/carl-apfel-in-memoriam.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carl and Iris Apfel, at left, photographed by Bruce Weber
on a trip to Southern Italy in the late 1970s
and at an event in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRUCE WEBER
MAGNOLIA PICTURES
 BILLY FARRELL/PATRICK McMULLAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (83%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS &
FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); JEWELRY (67%); TEXTILES (67%)

COUNTRY: MOROCCO (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Bali, a Riverfront Resort

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 588 words


Our Friday morning parks and recreation news digest, with deals, tips and
anything else that travelers may want to know.

SHARING ECONOMY EXPANDS AMONG R.V. USERS

Owners of an underused recreational vehicle, meet potential renters. That's the
premise of the new R.V.-sharing website Outdoorsy.co, which was introduced
nationally Thursday. Like Airbnb for road trippers, the site allows vehicle
owners to list their R.V., allowing travelers to search for them, subsequently
negotiate terms and afterward review and rate them. At launch, the site listed
2,300 RVs for rent. The company expects to reach 5,000 by year end, and 25,000
in the first year, as it says it is enlisting 50 to 75 new entries per day.
Outdoorsy isn't the first R.V. sharing site; competitors include RVShare.com.
But the newcomer says it offers at least one unique selling point: It allows
owners and renters to purchase liability insurance for coverage up to $1
million. The average six-night rental at Outdoorsy costs $1,961. Fully loaded
R.V.s with extras like linens, bikes and barbecues average $2,400 for the same
period.

ROAD TRIP NARRATION COMES TO TWO NATIONAL PARKS

If you've ever enjoyed a road trip, but wondered what exactly you were looking
at, now there's an app for that. The Just Ahead smartphone app acts as a
GPS-triggered audio guide, and has just released new guides to Yellowstone and
Grand Teton National Parks. In Yellowstone, the tour covers 600 stories related
to geysers, wildlife and folklore. The Grand Teton guide highlights natural
features like Jackson Lake and Teton Glacier and covers the human history of the
area from American Indians to cattle ranchers and early mountaineers. Both
provide day-trip suggestions and work without Internet connectivity as an audio
guidebook. With web access, the program's GPS tracking offers stories and maps
related to the user's location. The app is available for both iPhone and Android
platforms and guides cost $7.99 to $9.99 each.

AN INTERNMENT CAMP RECLAIMS A PIECE OF ITS PAST

A World War II confinement site for Japanese-Americans during the war, Heart
Mountain WWII Interpretive Center near Cody, Wyo., will observe its annual
pilgrimage event this year with the return of an original barrack. The
pilgrimage, taking place today and Saturday, invites former prisoners and their
families as well as the general public back to the site for panel discussions,
storytelling and memorial ceremonies. The 20-by-120-foot barrack was used
between August 1942 and November 1945 when some 14,000 Japanese-Americans were
forced into the camp. It was later moved 80 miles away and used as a university
research facility. The barrack and the only remaining root cellar in a camp that
once grew 2,500 tons of produce annually to sustain itself will be dedicated
this weekend and open thereafter to visitors to the National Historic Landmark.

A NEW PARK IN SYDNEY

Adding to the natural beauty of Sydney's waterfront, the new Barangaroo Reserve
opens Saturday, reclaiming 14 formerly industrial acres once devoted to storing
shipping containers. The now-contoured headland edged in sandstone was inspired
by the pre-colonial landscape and features newly planted trees and brush that
represent the native Australian bush. Adjacent to the Central Business District,
the new park offers Wulugul Walk, a shoreside promenade, as well as a central
gathering area that can accommodate up to 5,500 people.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/21/travel/parks-and-recreation-news-rv-sharing-we
bsite-launches-and-more.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mandapa in Ubud offers spa services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SHARING ECONOMY (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%);
ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (86%);
WORLD WAR II (84%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); WILDLIFE (73%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS
(70%); MAMMALS (69%); FOLKLORE (69%); ASIAN AMERICANS (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS
(66%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (53%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%)

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hotels: Soho House Goes Rural

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 694 words


Our Wednesday morning hotel and cruise digest, with deals, tips and anything
else that travelers may want to know.

IN BALI, A RIVERFRONT RESORT

The central Bali town of Ubud has long attracted wellness seekers, and its
newest luxury resort, Mandapa, a Ritz-Carlton Reserve, makes its spa, nutrition
and healing therapies central appeals. Opening Sept. 5, the resort features 35
suites and 25 villas, the latter with open-air passages between bedroom and
living areas, arranged around a terraced rice field on the Ayung River. The
eight-treatment-room spa features a riverfront yoga studio and classes ranging
from art therapy and circuit training in the jungle to juicing and vegan
cooking. Four restaurants and lounges will feature detoxifying culinary options
as well as more indulgent ones, and much of the produce is sourced from an
on-site garden. Rounding out its holistic approach, Mandapa welcomes children
too; the resort's Green Camp kid's program focuses on environmental learning and
Balinese culture. Rooms from $570.

NEW FAMILY CRUISES FROM TAUCK

Lacking the bells, whistles and water parks of oceangoing vessels, river cruise
ships tend to attract more adult travelers, though the tour operator Tauck plans
to double its family river cruise departures in the next two years. It currently
offers 10 family-focused itineraries on Europe's Danube, Rhine and Rhone Rivers
in 2016 and will expand to 20 family trips in 2017 on those and one more
to-be-determined waterway. The new route is in the planning phase, but the
company says it designs its trips with children in mind, pointing to current
excursions that include scavenger hunts in the Louvre Museum in Paris; medieval
games in Bratislava, Slovakia; guided riverside cycling trips in Austria; and
cooking classes of the gooey variety involving chocolate, marzipan and fondue.
The 2016 trips start at $3,690 per person on the eight-day Blue Danube: Family
Riverboat Adventure cruise.

LABOR DAY DISCOUNTS IN ORLANDO

With most families occupied by back-to-school preparations, Labor Day weekend is
a relatively low-season holiday for the theme parks and resorts of Orlando. Many
of the latter are offering discounts up to 40 percent off rooms compared with
holidays like July 4. Among examples, Cabana Bay at Universal Orlando Resort is
offering rooms from $116 per night through Sept. 6, and the Hyatt Regency Grand
Cypress is offering the fourth night free between Aug. 24 and Dec. 23 on rooms
starting at $159 per night. Beginning Aug. 24 and throughout September, visitors
can take advantage of more deals, this time on food, during Orlando's inaugural
Magical Dining Month, featuring $33 prix fixe dinners at a range of restaurants.

SOHO HOUSE GOES RURAL

The collection of stylish Soho Houses, private clubs with rooms to rent offering
entrée to nonmembers, moves to green acres with the recent August opening of
Soho Farmhouse. The London-based company's 15th  location resides on 100 acres
in Oxfordshire, about 80 miles northwest of London. Its 40 units range from a
one-bedroom cottage to a seven-bedroom house, and resort amenities include a
swimming pool, two tennis courts with two more grass courts to come next spring,
a stable with horseback riding, and a full-service spa. Soho Houses are
well-known for their culinary aspects, and the country version continues the
tradition with a restaurant that includes its own kitchen garden and smokehouse,
and food trucks that guests can call around the clock. Accommodations from £225
($340).

NEW EUROPEAN CRUISES FROM CUNARD

Whether you want a quick weeklong cruise or a deeper in-depth port stay, Cunard
aims to satisfy with new 2016 European itineraries aboard its 2,000-passenger
Queen Victoria. Announced this month, new seven-night cruises include sailing in
and around Norway's fjords and exploring the coast of Spain and Portugal. For
those with more time, many of the new nine-to-12-day itineraries in the
Mediterranean include overnight stays in Venice and Istanbul. Seven-day cruises
start at $1,198 per person, double occupancy.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/19/travel/hotel-and-cruise-news-a-riverfront-reso
rt-in-bali-discounts-in-orlando.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cottage at Soho Farmhouse in England. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOHO
FARMHOUSE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); FAMILY TRAVEL (90%); CRUISES (90%); RESORTS
(89%); US LABOR DAY (89%); FAMILY (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); CHILDREN (88%);
DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); WATER PARKS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS
(78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); MEAT FREE DIETS
(77%); YOGA (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION (75%); NEWS
BRIEFS (73%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); ART THERAPY (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%);
SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (71%); MENU PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL ORLANDO (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); SIC7812 MOTION
PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (51%)

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BRATISLAVA, SLOVAKIA
(69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SLOVAKIA (92%); ENGLAND (79%); FRANCE (79%);
EUROPE (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (69%); AUSTRIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Strip

BYLINE: By BRIAN McFADDEN

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 8 words


A weekly comic strip featured in the Sunday Review.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/opinion/sunday/the-strip-brian-mcfadden-comics
.html

GRAPHIC: CARTOON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials WEISS, DORIS T

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 17 words


WEISS--Doris T. 10/16/30 - 8/30/03. Dearly beloved and sadly remembered. Always
in my heart. Bernie 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials WEISS, DORIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 12 words


WEISS--Doris. In our hearts forever. Your Daughters, Wendy and Cathy 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials LEVINSON, SAUL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 29 words


LEVINSON--Saul. 6/1/1918 - 9/2/2010. 5 years gone, your values live on through
your children, grandchildren and great- grandson. Rest in peace. With much love,
Your Family 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials GINGOLD, JEFFREY I

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 12 words


GINGOLD--Jeffrey I. 8/31/87. Remembered, Loved. Arl, Bon and the gang 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials FLAKS, STEPHEN R

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 33 words


FLAKS--Stephen R. Jan. 1, 1941 - Aug. 30, 2013 Remembering your passion for
life, your delightful wit, your humor. You are missed and always in our
thoughts. Forever in our hearts, Your Loving Family 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials CAMMER, ROBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 10 words


CAMMER--Robert. Sail on, Salior. Miss and love you. Maggie 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials BERWIN, CLAUDIA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 18 words


BERWIN--Claudia. Dear Claudia, you are in our hearts... always. Milton, Evelyn,
Anna, Margot, Marianne and Al 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths WILLIAMS, SUSAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 31 words


WILLIAMS--Susan. Intrepid, innovative, multi-talented. Artist, loving mother,
grandmother and friend. AIR pioneer. Susan seized life. We mourn her. The
Founding Members of AIR Gallery. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STROUD, MARION BOULTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 273 words


STROUD--Marion Boulton. The Board of Trustees, Artist Advisory Committee and
Staff of the Fabric Workshop and Museum (FWM) deeply mourn the loss of our
visionary founder, leader and long-time friend, Marion (Kippy) Boulton Stroud.

A supporter of the arts and artists, curator, author and arts administrator,
Kippy pioneered the practice of direct support to artists through her unique
residency program at the Fabric Workshop and Museum, founded in Philadelphia in
1977. Her deep and abiding encouragement of artists to advance the boundaries of
their practice by offering them opportunities to experiment in a vast range of
media resulted in the FWM long record of groundbreaking residencies and
exhibitions and the Museum's important collection of 20th and 21st century art.
The unique works of art created at FWM are shown with regularity throughout the
United States and the world in major museums and cultural venues. Kippy was
deeply and passionately devoted to artists and the artistic community and
provided her unstinting support. She believed in the power of experimentation
and creativity and fostered access to arts for everyone. Kippy broke down
barriers--within social structures and within the process of art making. We
extend our deepest sympathy to Kippy's family of cousins-- Rosengartens, Sims
and Strouds--and to her extended family of artists and arts professionals who
have been so deeply inspired by her generous and giving spirit. Katherine
Sokolnikoff, President of the Board Stewart Cades, First Vice President Ann
Loftus, Second Vice President of the Board John Ravenal, Chairman of the Artist
Advisory Committee 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY (73%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STROUD, MARION BOULTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 162 words


STROUD--Marion Boulton. It is with great sadness that The International Council
of The Museum of Modern Art has learned of the sudden passing of Marion (Kippy)
Boulton Stroud. Kippy, of Philadelphia, Palm Beach, Florida, and Mount Desert
Island in Maine, was a member of the International Council since 1995.
Enormously energetic, creative, generous, and hardworking, she was a
multifaceted talent who was beloved by her many friends, including artists and
colleagues from around the world. Among her passions were The Fabric Workshop
and Museum in Philadelphia, which she founded and where she remained artistic
director until her death; the Acadia Summer Arts Program on Mount Desert Island;
the Philadelphia Museum of Art, where she was a trustee; ArtTable; and the
American Crafts Council. Kippy will be sorely missed. Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo
Carole Lauder, President Emerita Sharon Percy Rockefeller, President The
International Council of The Museum of Modern Art 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CRAFT COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P LAUDER (53%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); MAINE, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STEINHORN, BETTY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 67 words


STEINHORN--Betty, 94, died August 27. Predeceased by husband, Abe. Survived by
son Michael, daughter-in-law Donna, grandchildren Adam and Lauren. Also survived
by son Robert, grandchildren Benjamin, Joshua and their mother, Judy Weil.
Member of first graduating class of Queens College in 1941, a remarkable and
compassionate person who will be remembered for her love of tennis, mahjong, and
bridge. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SHAPIRO, ANN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 81 words


SHAPIRO--Ann, 76, died on Saturday August 22, 2015 after a long battle with
dementia. She is survived by her three sons, Richard, Robert and Neil, their
wives Elizabeth, Michele and Michele, and seven grandchildren, Jake, Emma, Jack,
Nell, Max, Kate and Jonah. She will be remembered for her smile, style,
intelligence and love for family. Ann will be buried in a private ceremony on
August 31, 2015. If so inclined, donations can be made to the Alzheimer's
Association, NYC Chapter. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DEMENTIA (88%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH
ORGANIZATIONS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (85%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SCHIERBERL, WILLIAM "BILL" LEON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 23 words


SCHIERBERL--William "Bill" Leon, died on June 28, 2015. Remembrances of Bill may
be found at: www.goblefh.net/memsol. cgi?user--id=1638283 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SCHEER, LILLIAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 62 words


SCHEER--Lillian, 87. Loving wife of Norman for 63 years, passed away peacefully
at home in Forest Hills on August 27, 2015. Devoted to daughters Sari and
Lauren, sons-in-law Samuel Kopel and Larry VanderVeen, grandsons Eric and
William Axelrod and Jacob and Miles VanderVeen, niece Eva Mueller and many dear
friends. We treasure the wonderful years we shared with her. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (84%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths RICHARD, HAROLD VAN BUREN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 174 words


RICHARD--Harold Van Buren, aged 100, died peacefully in York Harbor, ME on
August 27th, 2015. Raised in New York City, Van attended St. Paul's School in
Concord, NH and graduated from Princeton University, class of 1936. After
serving in World War II as a Destroyer Escort Skipper in the Pacific, he lived
in Brookville, NY and headed C.B. Richard & Co., retiring to Vero Beach, FL in
1983. A lifelong philanthropist, he was an avid golfer, bridge player and world
traveler. A kind and thoughtful man with a very positive approach to life, his
generosity and spirit will never be forgotten by his family and many friends.
Predeceased by his son Peter and his wife of 65 years Jane, he is survived by
his loving family; daughter Phyllis Fritts (Guy), daughter-in-law, Virginia
Richard and five grandchildren; James Fritts (Diana), Garret Fritts, William Z.
Richard (Erica), Travis Richard, Cecily Beach (Charles) and six
great-grandchildren. A Celebration of his life will be held this fall in Vero
Beach, FL. Visit www. lucaseatonfuneralhome.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); WORLD
WAR II (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CONCORD, NH, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths QUELCH, BERTRAM A.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 38 words


QUELCH--Bertram A.,87, Died August 21, 2015 in Pacific Grove, CA. Born in
Brooklyn, NY. Beloved ex-spouse of Ruth Edebohls, cousin of Donna Ford, Michael
Vaughn and Sharon Taylor. Private burial August 31 at Green- Wood Cemetery. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MUNSON, MARYANN PERKINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 40 words


MUNSON--Maryann Perkins, passed away peacefully on August 20, 2015 at her home
in New York. She is survived by her children, Mark, Melissa and Wendy; her
daughter-in- law, Laura Murak; her sister, Patricia McGrath and two
grandchildren. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (84%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MCKEIGE, BRUCE D.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 157 words


McKEIGE--Bruce D.,85, of Stuart, FL, and Montauk, NY passed away August 15, 2015
in Stuart. Born June 6, 1930, in Port Washington, NY, he graduated from Union
College and served as an officer aboard a naval minesweeper. He was happily
married to Sarah Beekman from 1953 until her death in 2005. Bruce founded his
successful Mortgage and Financial Securities firm, McKeige & Co., in Port
Washington in 1971. He was a great yachtsman, mariner, fisherman, and hunter,
and champion sailor. He is survived by his two children: Douglas McKeige of
Mamaroneck, NY, and Cornelia McKeige Localio of Tarrytown, NY; their spouses
Marie and Craig; grandchildren Natalie, Olivia, Ian, Will and Charlotte; and his
loving partner, Lenice Hirschberger. A memorial service will take place Friday,
September 11, 6pm at American Yacht Club, Milton Pt., Rye, NY. In lieu of
flowers, donations to Save the Sound, 545 Tompkins Ave., 3rd Floor, Mamaroneck,
NY 10543. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MILITARY VESSELS (87%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%);
GRANDCHILDREN (68%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MCCORMACK, SISTER UNA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 30 words


McCORMACK--Sister Una. With sadness, we mourn her passing. With appreciation, we
celebrate her life. We will miss our dear friend and advocate for children. Fred
and Susan Magovern 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MCCORMACK, SISTER UNA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 145 words


McCORMACK--Sister Una, O.P. - The Board of Directors and staff of Catholic
Guardian Services wish to express their deep sorrow at the passing of Sister Una
McCormack, O.P., former and longtime executive director of Catholic Home Bureau,
one of our predecessor agencies. Sister Una devoted her ministry to the care of
children, women, and families in need. Countless people were touched by her
compassionate service. She began as a social worker aiding orphaned, abandoned
and abused children and went on to head two major foster care agencies: Cardinal
McCloskey Children & Family Services and Catholic Home Bureau. In the
mid-1980's, she oversaw development of Incarnation Children's Center, believed
to be the nation's first residence for babies and young children with AIDS. She
will be greatly missed. Rory Kelleher Chair of the Board Craig Longley Executive
Director 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); CATHOLICS &
CATHOLICISM (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (88%); BOARDS OF
DIRECTORS (88%); FAMILY (87%); CHILD ABUSE (87%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MASS, JOAN F.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 17 words


MASS--Joan F.,a lover of life, books, her family and New York, passed on August
23, 2015 at age 83. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MARSHALL, MR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 117 words


MARSHALL--Mr. Edward, of Lawrence, NY and Boca Raton, FL died peacefully on
Sunday, August 23rd, at his home in Lawrence, one month shy of his 88th
birthday. He attended City College and was drafted into the United States Army
Air Force where he served from 1945-1946. Through the GI bill, he attended
Fordham Law School graduating in 1950. Mr. Marshall was an attorney and avid
golfer, but most of all he was a devout family man. He is survived by his wife
of 20 years, Maxine Goldberg Marshall; his children Craig (wife Nancy), Richard
(wife Jaimee); his grandchildren, Neal, Danny, Katie and Hannah; and his
stepchildren Douglas, Laura, Robert and Lisa and their respective spouses and
children. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%);
GRANDCHILDREN (86%); ARMIES (85%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); ARMED
FORCES (70%); STEPPARENTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LURIE, ABRAHAM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 104 words


LURIE--Abraham, on August 25, 2015 at the age of 97. Beloved husband of the late
Nettie, loving father of Susan (Don) and Debra (George). Cherished grandfather
of Raphael and Anna. Devoted partner of Anita Gurian. A person of keen
intellect, commitment to social change and social justice, Abe was one of the
great innovators in social work. His health and mental health program models
continue to be used globally. He embodied the best in practice, research,
management and program innovation. His work will be carried on by the many
people he taught, mentored and inspired and by his writings which number in the
hundreds. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (84%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (84%);
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (83%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LIPTON WOLF, JOAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 82 words


LIPTON WOLF--Joan. This prominent and memorable advertising executive passed
away peacefully on August 13, 2015. Joan's professional accomplishments include
a Clio Classic, a Matrix Award and Advertising Woman of the Year. She retired in
1990. Joan is survived by her son, David, daughter in law Jane and grandsons
Nicholas and Michael. Her husbands, William Lipton and Norton Wolf, predeceased
her. The family encourages friends to support the New York Women in
Communication Foundation. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%);
GRANDCHILDREN (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEAMAN, ROBIN LOBECK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 63 words


LEAMAN--Robin Lobeck, 85, died July 17 of lung cancer. Her sense of wonder, her
intelligence, humor, humility, musicality and compassion are deeply missed. She
leaves a grieving husband, of 54 years, John, daughters Jessica and Sarah, and
grandchildren Jake Kozloski and Josephine Orr. A memorial service will be held
September 26 at 11am at Grace Church, 10th St. and Broadway. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LUNG CANCER (85%); CANCER (85%);
GRANDCHILDREN (84%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KNIGHT, FRANCES "PEG" F

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 207 words


KNIGHT--Frances "Peg" F. (nee Floyd) 95, of Saddle River passed away on August
27, 2015. Born in Savannah, GA she has lived in Saddle River since 1961. A
member of St. Bartholomew's Church in Ho Ho Kus, Peg was an active volunteer for
The Red Cross, the Forum School of Waldwick and The Junior League of Bergen
County. Peg was a true enthusiast and benefactor of Hackensack University
Medical Center, The New York Philharmonic and The Metropolitan Opera. She had a
passion for traveling and enjoyed every corner of the world. Beloved wife of the
late William T. Knight, III (1997). Devoted mother of Rex Knight and his wife
Nancy of Westchester, NY. Loving grandmother of Jennifer, Douglas and Kristen.
The family will receive family and friends on Sunday from 3-7pm at Vander Plaat-
Vermeulen Memorial Home, 530 High Mountain Road, Franklin Lakes. Funeral
Services Monday 11am at St. Bartholomew's Church, Ho Ho Kus. Interment St.
Bonaventure Cemetery, Savannah, GA. The family request donations in memory of
Frances to the Heart and Vascular Hospital at the Hackensack University Medical
Center Foundation, 361 Essex Street, Suite 301, Hackensack, NJ 07601. For
further information please visit www.vpmemorial.com or call (201) 891-4770. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%)

CITY: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (90%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KEHOE, ELIZABETH FOULK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 120 words


KEHOE--Elizabeth Foulk, died peacefully at her residence in Greenville, RI this
past Tuesday. She was 92. Ms. Kehoe was born in Beijing, China and grew up in
Manhasset, NY. She graduated from Vassar College in the class of 1944, and began
a career in New York as a public relations staff writer for NBC, where she met
and later married David Drew Zingg. In the 1960s she worked at Irvington House
at NYU Medical Center and then at the Metropolitan Opera National Council.
Throughout her life she was passionate about music, from cabaret to Broadway and
the opera. After her retirement, she and her second husband, Richard G. Kehoe,
moved to Lyme, and Chester, CT. She is survived by three sons and five
grandchildren. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); OPERA (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); PUBLIC
RELATIONS (55%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KAPLAN, LLOYD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 53 words


KAPLAN--Lloyd. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the untimely death of our
member, Lloyd Kaplan. Lloyd was deeply committed to his community and will be
sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Lisa Linden, and
all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, DD, Senior Rabbi Martin Flumenbaum,
President 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KAPLAN, LLOYD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 73 words


KAPLAN--Lloyd, made us think and made us laugh - made us smile at his sense of
wonder and made our eyes roll at his sense of humor. He amazed us with his
intellect and amused us with his wackiness. He raised our spirits and raised the
bar for everything we did. He had a noble mind and a noble heart and now our
hearts are broken. "Good night sweet prince. And flights of angels sing thee to
thy rest." Steve Alschuler and Hannah Arnold 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KAPLAN, LLOYD ARTHUR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 237 words


KAPLAN--Lloyd Arthur, Publicist, writer and strategist, who counseled
government, business and non-profit leaders over a career that spanned five
decades, died on Thursday of complications from amyloidosis. He was 80, although
many people will find that hard to believe.

He worked diligently and effectively to the end of his life. He is survived by
his wife of 25 years and business partner, Lisa Linden, his children Zachary and
Polly Kaplan, daughter-in-law Daphne Klein, and grandchildren Tiger and Atticus
Kaplan and Olivia Dylewski. Born to Sarah (Simon) and Moses Kaplan, Lloyd grew
up in the Bronx. He received a BA from NYU (1955) and MFA from Yale University
(1958). He served as Director of Public Affairs, New York City Planning
Commission (1961-1975), Special Assistant to Mayor Abraham Beame and Chief of
Staff to First Deputy Mayor John Zuccotti (1975-78), Deputy New York State
Housing Commissioner (1978-81), Executive Vice President at Rubenstein
Associates (1981-1996), and Chairman of LAK Public Relations (1996-2015). He
loved classical music, theater, literature, art and antiques, Cape Cod, the
North Fork, good wine, and life. Interment will be private. A Memorial Service
will be held on Friday, October 2nd, at Congregation Rodeph Shalom, 7 West 83rd
Street, Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Citymeals-on-Wheels, or
Alzheimers Association of New York City would be appreciated. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES
(78%); WRITERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (78%);
CITIES (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); LAND USE PLANNING
(69%); MEALS ON WHEELS (64%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KANTOR, HOWARD M.D

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 342 words


KANTOR--Howard M.D. Howard Lionel Kantor M.D., passed away peacefully on August
13, 2015 surrounded by three generations of his loving family. He was 90. He was
an accomplished doctor, athlete, world traveler and lover of the arts. He is
survived by Gloria, his devoted and loving wife of 68 years; by his three
children, Lauren, Karen and Jonathan; and by seven grandchildren, Rachel, Sara,
Julia, David, Danielle, Allison and Benjamin.

Born in Kansas City, MO on October 17, 1924, he was one of three children. He
grew up in Tulsa, Oklahoma, where he was an Eagle Scout and an exceptional
student; he skipped two grades in school and graduated high school at the age of
15. He received a prestigious military scholarship to attend college at Rutgers
University and then medical school at Columbia University in New York. After
receiving his medical degree, he went on to become a pediatrician. He served in
the military first as a private in the Army during the Second World War and then
as a captain in the Air Force during the Korean War. Following his military
service, Kantor entered private practice initially as a pediatrician in Syosset,
NY, subsequently focusing solely on allergy-immunology in Huntington, NY. He
served as the President of the Nassau Suffolk Allergy Society of New York in
1985-87. A talented practitioner, he had a loyal patient following that included
multiple generations of families. With extraordinary dedication and enthusiasm,
he continued his medical practice until the end of his life. He loved nature and
the outdoors and spent many vacations throughout his life with his extended
family hiking and skiing in the Rocky Mountains. He was an exceptional athlete
and was especially accomplished in tennis. He and his wife, during their long
and loving marriage, together traveled to 60 countries. He was a sculptor, a
painter, an accomplished gardener, and loved to dance. We remember him for his
commitment to his profession, his loving devotion to his family and friends, and
his ability to live life to the fullest. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN (90%); PEDIATRICS (90%); PHYSICIANS
& SURGEONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%);
MARRIAGE (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (77%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); ARMIES (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS
(75%); IMMUNOLOGY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); KOREAN WAR
(69%); WORLD WAR II (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); HIKING (64%); MOUNTAINS (64%);
SKIING (63%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (56%); TULSA, OK, USA (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (88%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (66%);
MISSOURI, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KAGEL, STUART TODD SR.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 57 words


KAGEL--Stuart Todd Sr.,The Fashion Service Network mourns the untimely loss of
our friend, colleague and founding member. From his wealth of experience in the
apparel industry, Stuart always brought wisdom, insight and humor to our group.
He will be deeply missed. We extend our condolences to his family and all of our
friends at 24/Seven. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths JENNINGS, RICHARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 579 words


JENNINGS--Richard. Richard Townsley Jennings, a remarkable and beloved man, died
unexpectedly from complications due to a medical procedure on August 13. Born in
New York City in 1933, he grew up in a close-knit, hard-working family. His
mother, Cora and father, Alfred, were intelligent people of character who raised
two sons, Richard and his older brother, Donald, and their niece, Virginia,
raised as Richard's sister. By the time he was 15-years-old, he lost both his
brother and father, and went on two years later, to put himself through college
at Columbia University where he majored in music and business.

He was the first in his family to attend college. A fine and gifted pianist,
upon graduating from Columbia, Richard was a soldier in the Korean War where he
entertained the troops. This ability to reduce the suffering of others, and to
offer the music he so loved, brought him much joy. When he returned, he tried
with his characteristic steady determination to become a professional jazz
pianist and composer, and made one record called, "He Loves Me." Shortly
thereafter, he met Regina, a young Peruvian beauty and fellow lover of music and
literature. A person of unshakeable character, Richard began writing jingles to
provide for his bride and their beloved son, Christopher, born shortly after
they married in New York City. He went on to have a 40- year distinguished
career as an advertising executive, where he implemented the "Bob, for Texaco,
Hope" commercials, wrapping up at Saatchi & Saatchi. He was a first class Ad man
with the temperament of a gentle and gifted introvert. When it came to being a
parent, Richard was ahead of his time. In addition to providing for his family's
basic needs, he thoroughly enjoyed cooking for them, reading to his kids,
singing with them and helping them get ready for school. He spent countless
hours teaching his son what it meant to be an honorable man, how to work
diligently to achieve goals, how to care for others even and especially when
great sacrifice was required, and loved spending time with him going to see
every New York sports team, then briskly walking to Grand Central Station,
sometimes whistling to a favorite Frank Sinatra tune on the way home. His
daughter Pilar, born four years after Christopher, quickly developed a boundless
love for him. They were the shy, bookish ones in the family, with a shared and
passionate love of learning. Throughout her childhood, she watched him with awe
as he finished The New York Times crossword puzzle in the time it took her to
tie her shoes. He often complained, with his marvelously dry sense of humor,
that the puzzle was too easy that day, then affectionately tap her on the head
with the rolled up paper. When she learned the word "erudite," she realized that
it was the perfect way to describe her father, a history buff, politico, and
lover of the written word. It is with immense sadness, endless gratitude and
love, that we say goodbye. Richard was a profoundly devoted father, grandfather
to Carley, Samantha, and Mattie, a caring friend, a person of true character,
intellect, culture, and consummate joyful foodie. A truly good and loving man.
In lieu of flowers, please send donations to support students who are first in
their family to attend college at Columbia University's School of General
Studies. Mailing address: Office of the Dean, School of General Studies, 612
Lewisohn Hall MC4103, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%);
KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (74%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS &
PROCEDURES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%);
KOREAN WAR (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); SPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES
(54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HAKIM, MICHAEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 56 words


HAKIM--Michael, son of Albert and Luna, husband of Claire, father of Lissa,
Jackie, and Ari, grandfather of Bodhi, Kai, Hannah, Lillie, Matthew, Brooke, and
Lindsay. Brother of Fred (deceased), and Ethel H. Matarasso. Funeral 1pm today
at 68 Old Short Hills Road, Livingston, NJ. Shiva at home Sunday 5-9pm, Monday-
Thursday 12-9pm. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GLASS, JAMES P.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 65 words


GLASS--James P.,on August 7, 2015. Scenic Artist for The Metropolitan Opera; Art
Director, Production Designer and Scenic Artist for film and television. Also
ran the Cecilwood Theatre in Fishkill, NY, along with his then wife, Gunhild
Glass. Devoted father of Jessica and Julian Glass, dear brother of Joseph Glass,
survived by many nieces and nephews. Memorial service to be announced. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FILM (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%);
COSTUME & SET DESIGN (88%); OPERA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GLASER, GERRY "THE GLAZE," DIED PEACEFULLY AT HIS HOME IN
NEW YORK CITY ON AUGUST 24TH SURROUNDED BY HIS LOVING FAMILY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 82 words


GLASER--Gerry "The Glaze," died peacefully at his home in New York City on
August 24th surrounded by his loving family. He is survived by his wife, Mary
Cagney, son Matthew Glaser, daughter Claudia Glaser-Mussen, son-in-law Jim,
step-sons Frank Vitiello and Jamie Vitiello, daugh- ters-in-law Lara and Juli,
grandchildren Jacob, Mikayla, Kai, Francesca, and Fiona and his brother Milton.
There will be a memorial celebration on Sunday, November 1, 2015. Please contact
the family for details. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FERRITER, ROGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 161 words


FERRITER--Roger, of Larchmont, NY, passed away on August 28, 2015. He was 82.
Born in Cranston, RI on September 6, 1932 to George and Olive Ferriter, Roger
proudly served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corp, played minor league
baseball and became a world renowned graphic designer, best known as the creator
of L'eggs. Roger is survived by his beloved wife Phyllis, loving children,
Eugene Ferriter (Maureen), Julianna Bruce (Daniel) and Ken Ferriter (Kathy),
step-son Matthew, cherished grandchildren, Elliot, Brianna, Charlotte, Drake and
Bella, he was predeceased by his dear brothers Herb, Ted and Chick Ferriter. To
honor Roger's life, family and friends will gather on Monday from 4-8pm at Coxe
& Graziano Funeral Home, 767 E. Boston Post Rd., Mamaroneck 914-698-5968.
Funeral Mass 11am Tuesday at St. Augustine's R.C. Church, followed by interment
at Greenwood Union Cemetery. For more information or to place an online
condolence, www.coxeandgraziano.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); BASEBALL (71%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (66%)

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FEINSTEIN, MITCHELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 93 words


FEINSTEIN--Mitchell, devoted husband and best friend to wife Lori Hoberman,
constant companion, coach and confidante to son Sammy, source of unflagging love
and goodness to his parents, his sister and his mother-in-law, and the glue that
held so much together with his characteristic wisdom and modesty. We are hurting
for you and for the magnitude of the family's loss. Our condolences, fortitude,
enduring friendship and love go out to you to help you through this most
difficult period. Jerry & Ruthie Kestenbaum, Zach & Rina, TJ & Erica, Joe &
Jesse. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CORTESI, HENRY BENNING

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 122 words


CORTESI--Henry Benning, died August 22nd at his home in Manhattan after a long
illness. Born in New York on August 5th 1936, he was a graduate of Milton
Academy, Harvard College, and the University of Pennsylvania law school. For
most of his career he practiced law at Webster & Sheffield. He was a prodigious
reader of contemporary literature and a lifelong collector of paintings. In 1990
he married Nan Rosenthal, a curator of 20th century art, who predeceased him in
2014. He is survived by his sister, Katharine Cortesi Armstrong, his brothers
Roger Spencer Cortesi and Alexander Cochrane Cortesi, and eight nieces and
nephews. A man of subversive wit and precise personal style, he will be missed.
Services will be private. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL
SCHOOLS (87%); ART COLLECTING (86%); PAINTING (86%); LITERATURE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BUCKSBAUM, MELVA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 64 words


BUCKSBAUM--Melva. The entire staff of Christie's America is saddened by the
death of our friend and Advisory Board member Melva Bucksbaum. Her charm,
counsel and grace will be much missed within our firm and in the wider Art World
community. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Raymond Learsy and to
her entire family. Marc Porter, Chairman; Stephen Lash, Chairman Emeritus 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BRUMBERG, PETER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 17 words


BRUMBERG--Peter, 86. Beloved by all. Your death leaves a hole in our hearts.
Loving Family and Friends 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 358 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths APFEL, CARL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 71 words


APFEL--Carl. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art note with
sadness the passing of Carl Apfel, a charming and debonair friend for whom --
along with his wife Iris -- a gallery in the Anna Wintour Costume Center is
named. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Iris. Daniel Brodsky, Chairman
Thomas P. Campbell, Director and CEO Daniel Weiss, President Harold Koda,
Curator in Charge, The Costume Institute 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); EXECUTIVES (85%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
